url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/jd-com-nasdaq-jd-using-110016858.html
title:Is_JDcom_NASDAQJD_Using_Too_Much_Debt
Warren Buffett famously said, 'Volatility is far from synonymous with risk.' So it might be obvious that you need to consider debt, when you think about how risky any given stock is, because too much debt can sink a company. Importantly, JD.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:JD) does carry debt. But the real question is whether this debt is making the company risky.
Debt assists a business until the business has trouble paying it off, either with new capital or with free cash flow. If things get really bad, the lenders can take control of the business. However, a more frequent (but still costly) occurrence is where a company must issue shares at bargain-basement prices, permanently diluting shareholders, just to shore up its balance sheet. Of course, the upside of debt is that it often represents cheap capital, especially when it replaces dilution in a company with the ability to reinvest at high rates of return. The first thing to do when considering how much debt a business uses is to look at its cash and debt together.
 See our latest analysis for JD.com 
As you can see below, at the end of June 2023, JD.com had CN¥50.0b of debt, up from CN¥38.4b a year ago. Click the image for more detail. But it also has CN¥235.1b in cash to offset that, meaning it has CN¥185.1b net cash.
The latest balance sheet data shows that JD.com had liabilities of CN¥259.7b due within a year, and liabilities of CN¥56.9b falling due after that. Offsetting these obligations, it had cash of CN¥235.1b as well as receivables valued at CN¥24.4b due within 12 months. So it has liabilities totalling CN¥57.1b more than its cash and near-term receivables, combined.
Given JD.com has a humongous market capitalization of CN¥310.4b, it's hard to believe these liabilities pose much threat. Having said that, it's clear that we should continue to monitor its balance sheet, lest it change for the worse. While it does have liabilities worth noting, JD.com also has more cash than debt, so we're pretty confident it can manage its debt safely.
Even more impressive was the fact that JD.com grew its EBIT by 228% over twelve months. If maintained that growth will make the debt even more manageable in the years ahead. When analysing debt levels, the balance sheet is the obvious place to start. But ultimately the future profitability of the business will decide if JD.com can strengthen its balance sheet over time. So if you want to see what the professionals think, you might find this free report on analyst profit forecasts to be interesting.
Finally, a business needs free cash flow to pay off debt; accounting profits just don't cut it. JD.com may have net cash on the balance sheet, but it is still interesting to look at how well the business converts its earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) to free cash flow, because that will influence both its need for, and its capacity to manage debt. Over the last three years, JD.com actually produced more free cash flow than EBIT. There's nothing better than incoming cash when it comes to staying in your lenders' good graces.
While JD.com does have more liabilities than liquid assets, it also has net cash of CN¥185.1b. The cherry on top was that in converted 206% of that EBIT to free cash flow, bringing in CN¥30b. So we don't think JD.com's use of debt is risky. The balance sheet is clearly the area to focus on when you are analysing debt. However, not all investment risk resides within the balance sheet - far from it. For example - JD.com has   1 warning sign   we think you should be aware of.
At the end of the day, it's often better to focus on companies that are free from net debt. You can access our special list of such companies (all with a track record of profit growth). It's free.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.
Related Quotes