url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/heres-applied-materials-nasdaq-amat-120018315.html
title:Heres_What_Applied_Materials_NASDAQAMAT_Strong_Returns_On_Capital_Mean
If you're looking for a multi-bagger, there's a few things to keep an eye out for. Typically, we'll want to notice a trend of growing return on capital employed (ROCE) and alongside that, an expanding base of capital employed. Basically this means that a company has profitable initiatives that it can continue to reinvest in, which is a trait of a compounding machine. So, when we ran our eye over Applied Materials' (NASDAQ:AMAT) trend of ROCE, we really liked what we saw.
If you haven't worked with ROCE before, it measures the 'return' (pre-tax profit) a company generates from capital employed in its business. The formula for this calculation on Applied Materials is:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) รท (Total Assets - Current Liabilities)
0.35 = US$7.7b รท (US$30b - US$8.2b) (Based on the trailing twelve months to July 2023).
Therefore, Applied Materials has an ROCE of 35%. In absolute terms that's a great return and it's even better than the Semiconductor industry average of 11%.
 View our latest analysis for Applied Materials 
Above you can see how the current ROCE for Applied Materials compares to its prior returns on capital, but there's only so much you can tell from the past. If you're interested, you can view the analysts predictions in our free report on analyst forecasts for the company.
We'd be pretty happy with returns on capital like Applied Materials. Over the past five years, ROCE has remained relatively flat at around 35% and the business has deployed 64% more capital into its operations. Returns like this are the envy of most businesses and given it has repeatedly reinvested at these rates, that's even better. If Applied Materials can keep this up, we'd be very optimistic about its future.
In short, we'd argue Applied Materials has the makings of a multi-bagger since its been able to compound its capital at very profitable rates of return. On top of that, the stock has rewarded shareholders with a remarkable 333% return to those who've held over the last five years. So while the positive underlying trends may be accounted for by investors, we still think this stock is worth looking into further.
While Applied Materials looks impressive, no company is worth an infinite price. The  intrinsic value infographic in our free research report  helps visualize whether AMAT is currently trading for a fair price.
Applied Materials is not the only stock earning high returns. If you'd like to see more, check out our free list of companies earning high returns on equity with solid fundamentals.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.