url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/cintas-opens-cleanroom-facility-north-171400906.html
title:Cintas_opens_new_Cleanroom_facility_in_North_Carolinas_Research_Triangle
The state-of-the-art facility will support region’s innovation economy, creating more than 100 jobs over the next year
GRAHAM, N.C., October 24, 2023--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Cintas Corporation (Nasdaq: CTAS) today held a grand opening ceremony at its newest Cleanroom facility, located near North Carolina’s Research Triangle.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231024862057/en/
Cintas leadership cutting the ribbon at the brand new state-of-the-art facility in Graham, N.C. (Photo: Business Wire)
The state-of-the-art facility in Graham, N.C., creates additional capacity in Cintas’ national Cleanroom footprint that now includes five Cleanroom facilities around the United States.
>> Media Use Images & Video (Dropbox): Download Here
The new Research Triangle Cleanroom facility will support high-growth industries in the region, including pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, medical device manufacturing, compounding pharmacies, electronics manufacturing, aerospace and defense, nanotechnology, semiconductor, automotive and optics, among other industries.
"Cleanroom is an exciting, growing business for us, and we’re especially excited to expand our resources in the Research Triangle area where we already have a long, successful history," said Nick Grote, Cintas Cleanroom Regional Business Director. "Our new Graham location was built to support the rapid growth of high-tech and innovation industries in the region, as well as the vast network of technology, research, and development operations throughout the Southeastern United States.
"As we’ve seen in the last 18-24 months, innovation- and research-based industries are expanding quickly around North America. We’re excited that we can service these important industries and meet their very specific needs as they continue to innovate for our collective future," Grote added.
Local Job Creation
The Research Triangle Cleanroom facility has immediate openings for 20-25 new jobs and expects to add an additional 80-100 employees over the next 6 to 12 months. The facility already employs 35 people.
Job openings are available at careers.cintas.com, and job seekers can also register their interest in Cleanroom and other local Cintas positions on the site.
"Cintas has been doing business in the Carolinas for more than 40 years, and we’re excited that we’re continuing to grow our operations with so many new jobs at this location," said Kyle McClure, General Manager of the Graham Cleanroom.
What Are Cintas Cleanrooms?
Cintas Cleanrooms use a highly specialized laundering process with strict standard operating procedures and stringent requirements that meet and maintain ISO 9001 certification.
The Cleanroom process removes particulates from specialized employee workwear required in highly controlled high-tech manufacturing, research and testing environments.
Cintas’ Cleanrooms developed contamination control equipment, systems and technology to meet the stringent requirements of their customers and deliver quality, value and service for industries that require contamination control solutions for their workwear.
Dedicated Cleanroom quality managers monitor Cintas’ Cleanroom facilities as part of a comprehensive total quality management program.
About Cintas Corporation
Cintas Corporation helps more than one million businesses of all types and sizes get Ready™ to open their doors with confidence every day by providing products and services that help keep their customers’ facilities and employees clean, safe, and looking their best. With offerings including uniforms, mats, mops, towels, restroom supplies, workplace water services, first aid and safety products, eye-wash stations, safety training, fire extinguishers, sprinkler systems and alarm service, Cintas helps customers get Ready for the Workday®. Headquartered in Cincinnati, Cintas is a publicly held Fortune 500 company traded over the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CTAS and is a component of both the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and Nasdaq-100 Index.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231024862057/en/
Contacts
Lizz Summers, Cintas Director of Communications – Rental Division | summerse2@cintas.com | 513-972-2859