url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/cintas-corporations-nasdaq-ctas-high-140027903.html
title:Cintas_Corporations_NASDAQCTAS_high_institutional_ownership_speaks_for_itself_as_stock_continues_to_impress_up_44_over_last_week
Institutions' substantial holdings in Cintas implies that they have significant influence over the company's share price
The top 18 shareholders own 50% of the company
 Insider ownership in Cintas is 15%
A look at the shareholders of Cintas Corporation (NASDAQ:CTAS) can tell us which group is most powerful. And the group that holds the biggest piece of the pie are institutions with 64% ownership. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).
And things are looking up for institutional investors after the company gained US$2.2b in market cap last week. The gains from last week would have further boosted the one-year return to shareholders which currently stand at 28%.
Let's delve deeper into each type of owner of Cintas, beginning with the chart below.
 See our latest analysis for Cintas 
Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.
Cintas already has institutions on the share registry. Indeed, they own a respectable stake in the company. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. If multiple institutions change their view on a stock at the same time, you could see the share price drop fast. It's therefore worth looking at Cintas' earnings history below. Of course, the future is what really matters.
Investors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Cintas is not owned by hedge funds. From our data, we infer that the largest shareholder is Scott Farmer (who also holds the title of Top Key Executive) with 14% of shares outstanding. Its usually considered a good sign when insiders own a significant number of shares in the company, and in this case, we're glad to see a company insider play the role of a key stakeholder. In comparison, the second and third largest shareholders hold about 10% and 7.8% of the stock.
After doing some more digging, we found that the top 18 have the combined ownership of 50% in the company, suggesting that no single shareholder has significant control over the company.
While it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. There are plenty of analysts covering the stock, so it might be worth seeing what they are forecasting, too.
While the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. Company management run the business, but the CEO will answer to the board, even if he or she is a member of it.
Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.
It seems insiders own a significant proportion of Cintas Corporation. Insiders own US$7.9b worth of shares in the US$53b company. That's quite meaningful. Most would say this shows a good degree of alignment with shareholders, especially in a company of this size. You can  click here to see if those insiders have been buying or selling. 
With a 21% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Cintas. While this group can't necessarily call the shots, it can certainly have a real influence on how the company is run.
It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand Cintas better, we need to consider many other factors. Take risks for example - Cintas has   1 warning sign   we think you should be aware of.
If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.
NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.