url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/sasbadi-holdings-berhads-klse-sasbadi-233100644.html
title:Do_Sasbadi_Holdings_Berhads_KLSESASBADI_Earnings_Warrant_Your_Attention
The excitement of investing in a company that can reverse its fortunes is a big draw for some speculators, so even companies that have no revenue, no profit, and a record of falling short, can manage to find investors. Sometimes these stories can cloud the minds of investors, leading them to invest with their emotions rather than on the merit of good company fundamentals. Loss-making companies are always racing against time to reach financial sustainability, so investors in these companies may be taking on more risk than they should.
If this kind of company isn't your style, you like companies that generate revenue, and even earn profits, then you may well be interested in Sasbadi Holdings Berhad (KLSE:SASBADI). Now this is not to say that the company presents the best investment opportunity around, but profitability is a key component to success in business.
 See our latest analysis for Sasbadi Holdings Berhad 
Strong earnings per share (EPS) results are an indicator of a company achieving solid profits, which investors look upon favourably and so the share price tends to reflect great EPS performance. So a growing EPS generally brings attention to a company in the eyes of prospective investors. It is awe-striking that Sasbadi Holdings Berhad's EPS went from RM0.002 to RM0.023 in just one year. While it's difficult to sustain growth at that level, it bodes well for the company's outlook for the future. But the key is discerning whether something profound has changed, or if this is a just a one-off boost.
It's often helpful to take a look at earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) margins, as well as revenue growth, to get another take on the quality of the company's growth. The music to the ears of Sasbadi Holdings Berhad shareholders is that EBIT margins have grown from 4.3% to 14% in the last 12 months and revenues are on an upwards trend as well. Ticking those two boxes is a good sign of growth, in our book.
In the chart below, you can see how the company has grown earnings and revenue, over time. For finer detail, click on the image.
Sasbadi Holdings Berhad isn't a huge company, given its market capitalisation of RM74m. That makes it extra important to check on its balance sheet strength.
Many consider high insider ownership to be a strong sign of alignment between the leaders of a company and the ordinary shareholders. So those who are interested in Sasbadi Holdings Berhad will be delighted to know that insiders have shown their belief, holding a large proportion of the company's shares. In fact, they own 43% of the shares, making insiders a very influential shareholder group. Those who are comforted by solid insider ownership like this should be happy, as it implies that those running the business are genuinely motivated to create shareholder value. Valued at only RM74m Sasbadi Holdings Berhad is really small for a listed company. So despite a large proportional holding, insiders only have RM32m worth of stock. That might not be a huge sum but it should be enough to keep insiders motivated!
While it's always good to see some strong conviction in the company from insiders through heavy investment, it's also important for shareholders to ask if management compensation policies are reasonable. Our quick analysis into CEO remuneration would seem to indicate they are. Our analysis has discovered that the median total compensation for the CEOs of companies like Sasbadi Holdings Berhad with market caps under RM954m is about RM488k.
Sasbadi Holdings Berhad offered total compensation worth RM422k to its CEO in the year to August 2022. That comes in below the average for similar sized companies and seems pretty reasonable. CEO compensation is hardly the most important aspect of a company to consider, but when it's reasonable, that gives a little more confidence that leadership are looking out for shareholder interests. Generally, arguments can be made that reasonable pay levels attest to good decision-making.
Sasbadi Holdings Berhad's earnings per share growth have been climbing higher at an appreciable rate. The cherry on top is that insiders own a bucket-load of shares, and the CEO pay seems really quite reasonable. The drastic earnings growth indicates the business is going from strength to strength. Hopefully a trend that continues well into the future. Sasbadi Holdings Berhad is certainly doing some things right and is well worth investigating. It's still necessary to consider the ever-present spectre of investment risk.   We've identified 3 warning signs  with Sasbadi Holdings Berhad , and understanding these should be part of your investment process.
The beauty of investing is that you can invest in almost any company you want. But if you prefer to focus on stocks that have demonstrated insider buying, here is a list of companies with insider buying in the last three months.
Please note the insider transactions discussed in this article refer to reportable transactions in the relevant jurisdiction.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.