url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/momentum-investor-1-stock-could-135007696.html
title:Are_You_a_Momentum_Investor_This_1_Stock_Could_Be_the_Perfect_Pick
It doesn't matter your age or experience: taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals for all investors.
Many investors also have a go-to methodology that helps guide their buy and sell decisions. One way to find winning stocks based on your preferred way of investing is to use the Zacks Style Scores, which are indicators that rate stocks based on three widely-followed investing types: value, growth, and momentum.
Is This 1 Momentum Stock a Screaming Buy Right Now?
Different than value or growth investors, momentum-oriented investors live by the saying "the trend is your friend." This investing style is all about taking advantage of upward or downward trends in a stock's price or earnings outlook. Employing factors like one-week price change and the monthly percentage change in earnings estimates, the Momentum Style Score can indicate favorable times to build a position in high-momentum stocks.
Exelon (EXC)
Chicago, IL-based Exelon Corporation completed the previously announced separation of the power generation and competitive energy business, namely Constellation Energy Corp., into a separate entity, which will trade under the symbol “CEG”.  Exelon retained the transmission and distribution utility business, which will continue to be called Exelon and trade under the symbol “EXC”. The separation was completed on Feb 1, 2022.
EXC sits at a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), holds a Momentum Style Score of A, and has a VGM Score of B. The stock is down 2.3% and up 0.5% over the past one-week and four-week period, respectively, and Exelon has gained 3.7% in the last one-year period as well. Additionally, an average of 6,068,288 shares were traded over the last 20 trading sessions.
Momentum investors don't just pay attention to price changes; positive earnings play a crucial role, too. One analyst revised their earnings estimate upwards in the last 60 days for fiscal 2023. The Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0 to $2.35 per share. EXC boasts an average earnings surprise of 3.2%.
With strong earnings growth, a good Zacks Rank, and top-tier Momentum and VGM Style Scores, investors should think about adding EXC to their portfolios.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Exelon Corporation (EXC) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research