url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/align-technology-opens-2024-annual-210100183.html
title:Align_Technology_Opens_2024_Annual_Research_Program_to_Advance_Orthodontic_and_Dental_Patient_Care
2024 Grant Application Process Now Open for Up to $300,000 in Funding
TEMPE, Ariz., November 06, 2023--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Align Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ: ALGN) today announced the opening of its 2024 Annual Research Award Program to support clinical and scientific dental research in universities across the globe. This year, up to $300,000 will be awarded to university faculty for scientific and technological research initiatives to advance patient care in the fields of orthodontics and dentistry. Align Technology’s Research Award Program has funded approximately $3 million in research since the program’s inception in 2010.
"This program is an exciting opportunity for university researchers globally to expand scientific and clinical learnings to elevate patient care," said Dr. Mitra Derakhshan, Align senior vice president, global clinical. "We look forward to the topics and research studies that may ultimately improve treatment outcomes and the quality of life for more patients worldwide."
"Once again, we anticipate receiving a large number of applications to this research program. The topics submitted throughout the past years have been diverse and often on the forefront of the dental field. Align Technology is proud to fund this research program with the purpose of improving dental care throughout the world," said John Morton, Align vice president, product innovation and technical fellow.
Awards available for dental research at universities are available in the following regions:
Americas (US, Canada, Mexico, Central and South America): Four one-year awards of up to US$25,000 each
EMEA: Four one-year awards of up to US$25,000 each
APAC: Four one-year awards of up to US$25,000 each
Eligible applicants for dental research awards include full-time and part-time faculty involved in dental or scientific research at universities where Invisalign® treatment or the iTero™ scanner is available. All applications are reviewed by an independent academic committee that forwards its recommendations to Align for final selection. Consideration will be given to first-time applications from a university program. Program details, instructions, and application forms for prospective applicants can be found at https://learn.aligntech.com/pages/61/resources (for Americas, EMEA and APAC applicants). Research proposals and completed applications must be received by 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on March 8, 2024. Award recipients will be notified by June 3, 2024.
About Align Technology, Inc.
Align Technology designs and manufactures the Invisalign® System, the most advanced clear aligner system in the world, iTero™ intraoral scanners and services, and exocad™ CAD/CAM software. These technology building blocks enable enhanced digital orthodontic and restorative workflows to improve patient outcomes and practice efficiencies for over 252 thousand doctor customers and is key to accessing Align’s 600 million consumer market opportunity worldwide. Over the past 26 years, Align has helped doctors treat 16.4 million patients with the Invisalign System and is driving the evolution in digital dentistry through the Align Digital Platform™, our integrated suite of unique, proprietary technologies and services delivered as a seamless, end-to-end solution for patients and consumers, orthodontists and GP dentists, and lab/partners. Visit www.aligntech.com for more information.
For additional information about the Invisalign system or to find an Invisalign doctor in your area, please visit www.invisalign.com. For additional information about the iTero digital scanning system, please visit www.itero.com. For additional information about exocad dental CAD/CAM offerings and a list of exocad reseller partners, please visit www.exocad.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231106381635/en/
Contacts
Align Technology Madelyn Valente(909) 833-5839mvalente@aligntech.com
Zeno Group Sarah Johnson(828) 551-4201sarah.johnson@zenogroup.com