url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/president-align-technology-picks-2-100522675.html
title:President_of_Align_Technology_Picks_Up_27_More_Stock
Those following along with Align Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ:ALGN) will no doubt be intrigued by the recent purchase of shares by Joseph Hogan, President of the company, who spent a stonking US$1m on stock at an average price of US$188. There's no denying a buy of that magnitude suggests conviction in a brighter future, although we do note that proportionally it only increased their holding by 2.7%.
 View our latest analysis for Align Technology 
The Independent Director Kevin Dallas made the biggest insider purchase in the last 12 months. That single transaction was for US$2.0m worth of shares at a price of US$285 each. That means that even when the share price was higher than US$192 (the recent price), an insider wanted to purchase shares. While their view may have changed since the purchase was made, this does at least suggest they have had confidence in the company's future. In our view, the price an insider pays for shares is very important. As a general rule, we feel more positive about a stock if insiders have bought shares at above current prices, because that suggests they viewed the stock as good value, even at a higher price.
In the last twelve months Align Technology insiders were buying shares, but not selling. You can see the insider transactions (by companies and individuals) over the last year depicted in the chart below. If you want to know exactly who sold, for how much, and when, simply click on the graph below!
There are plenty of other companies that have insiders buying up shares. You probably do not want to miss this free list of growing companies that insiders are buying.
Many investors like to check how much of a company is owned by insiders. We usually like to see fairly high levels of insider ownership. Align Technology insiders own 4.1% of the company, currently worth about US$577m based on the recent share price. I like to see this level of insider ownership, because it increases the chances that management are thinking about the best interests of shareholders.
It's certainly positive to see the recent insider purchase. And an analysis of the transactions over the last year also gives us confidence. Along with the high insider ownership, this analysis suggests that insiders are quite bullish about Align Technology. Nice! Therefore, you should definitely take a look at this FREE report showing analyst forecasts for Align Technology.
If you would prefer to check out another company -- one with potentially superior financials -- then do not miss this free list of interesting companies, that have HIGH return on equity and low debt.
For the purposes of this article, insiders are those individuals who report their transactions to the relevant regulatory body. We currently account for open market transactions and private dispositions of direct interests only, but not derivative transactions or indirect interests.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.