url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/us-271-time-put-ansys-143025337.html
title:At_US271_Is_It_Time_To_Put_ANSYS_Inc_NASDAQANSS_On_Your_Watch_List
ANSYS, Inc. (NASDAQ:ANSS) received a lot of attention from a substantial price movement on the NASDAQGS over the last few months, increasing to US$344 at one point, and dropping to the lows of US$269. Some share price movements can give investors a better opportunity to enter into the stock, and potentially buy at a lower price. A question to answer is whether ANSYS' current trading price of US$271 reflective of the actual value of the large-cap? Or is it currently undervalued, providing us with the opportunity to buy? Let’s take a look at ANSYS’s outlook and value based on the most recent financial data to see if there are any catalysts for a price change.
 View our latest analysis for ANSYS 
The stock seems fairly valued at the moment according to my valuation model. It’s trading around 8.0% below my intrinsic value, which means if you buy ANSYS today, you’d be paying a fair price for it. And if you believe the company’s true value is $294.31, then there isn’t much room for the share price grow beyond what it’s currently trading. Is there another opportunity to buy low in the future? Since ANSYS’s share price is quite volatile, we could potentially see it sink lower (or rise higher) in the future, giving us another chance to buy. This is based on its high beta, which is a good indicator for how much the stock moves relative to the rest of the market.
Investors looking for growth in their portfolio may want to consider the prospects of a company before buying its shares. Buying a great company with a robust outlook at a cheap price is always a good investment, so let’s also take a look at the company's future expectations. With profit expected to grow by 51% over the next couple of years, the future seems bright for ANSYS. It looks like higher cash flow is on the cards for the stock, which should feed into a higher share valuation.
Are you a shareholder? It seems like the market has already priced in ANSS’s positive outlook, with shares trading around its fair value. However, there are also other important factors which we haven’t considered today, such as the financial strength of the company. Have these factors changed since the last time you looked at the stock? Will you have enough confidence to invest in the company should the price drop below its fair value?
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping an eye on ANSS, now may not be the most optimal time to buy, given it is trading around its fair value. However, the optimistic prospect is encouraging for the company, which means it’s worth further examining other factors such as the strength of its balance sheet, in order to take advantage of the next price drop.
It can be quite valuable to consider what analysts expect for ANSYS from their most recent forecasts. At Simply Wall St, we have the analysts estimates which you can view by clicking here.
If you are no longer interested in ANSYS, you can use our free platform to see our list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.