url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/heres-why-oreilly-automotive-orly-134507753.html
title:Heres_Why_OReilly_Automotive_ORLY_is_a_Strong_Growth_Stock
It doesn't matter your age or experience: taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals for all investors.
Many investors also have a go-to methodology that helps guide their buy and sell decisions. One way to find winning stocks based on your preferred way of investing is to use the Zacks Style Scores, which are indicators that rate stocks based on three widely-followed investing types: value, growth, and momentum.
Why This 1 Growth Stock Should Be On Your Watchlist
Different than value or momentum investors, growth-oriented investors are concerned with a stock's future prospects, and the overall financial health and strength of a company. Thus, they'll want to focus on the Growth Style Score, which analyzes characteristics like projected and historical earnings, sales, and cash flow to find stocks that will see sustainable growth over time.
O'Reilly Automotive (ORLY)
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. is a leading specialty retailer of automotive aftermarket parts, tools, supplies, equipment and accessories in the United States. Founded in 1957, O'Reilly initially operated from a single store in Springfield, MO. The company’s stores offer several services and programs to customers, which include battery diagnostic testing, check engine light code extraction and loaner tool program, among others. The company offers vehicle accessories, such as floor mats and seat cover as well as maintenance items like antifreeze, engine additives, filters, fluids, lighting and wiper blades.
ORLY is a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) stock, with a Growth Style Score of B and VGM Score of B. Earnings are expected to grow 14% year-over-year for the current fiscal year, with sales growth of 9.6%.
11 analysts revised their earnings estimate higher in the last 60 days for fiscal 2023, while the Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0.55 to $38.11 per share. ORLY also boasts an average earnings surprise of 4.3%.
O'Reilly Automotive is also cash rich. The company has generated cash flow growth of 14.4%, and is expected to report cash flow expansion of 1.5% in 2023.
With solid fundamentals, a good Zacks Rank, and top-tier Growth and VGM Style Scores, ORLY should be on investors' short lists.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (ORLY) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research