url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/makes-oreilly-automotive-orly-strong-170006573.html
title:What_Makes_OReilly_Automotive_ORLY_a_Strong_Momentum_Stock_Buy_Now
Momentum investing revolves around the idea of following a stock's recent trend in either direction. In the 'long' context, investors will be essentially be "buying high, but hoping to sell even higher." With this methodology, taking advantage of trends in a stock's price is key; once a stock establishes a course, it is more than likely to continue moving that way. The goal is that once a stock heads down a fixed path, it will lead to timely and profitable trades.
Even though momentum is a popular stock characteristic, it can be tough to define. Debate surrounding which are the best and worst metrics to focus on is lengthy, but the Zacks Momentum Style Score, part of the Zacks Style Scores, helps address this issue for us.
Below, we take a look at O'Reilly Automotive (ORLY), a company that currently holds a Momentum Style Score of B. We also talk about price change and earnings estimate revisions, two of the main aspects of the Momentum Style Score.
It's also important to note that Style Scores work as a complement to the Zacks Rank, our stock rating system that has an impressive track record of outperformance. O'Reilly Automotive currently has a Zacks Rank of #2 (Buy). Our research shows that stocks rated Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) and #2 (Buy) and Style Scores of A or B outperform the market over the following one-month period.
You can see the current list of Zacks #1 Rank Stocks here >>>
Set to Beat the Market?
Let's discuss some of the components of the Momentum Style Score for ORLY that show why this auto parts retailer shows promise as a solid momentum pick.
Looking at a stock's short-term price activity is a great way to gauge if it has momentum, since this can reflect both the current interest in a stock and if buyers or sellers have the upper hand at the moment. It is also useful to compare a security to its industry, as this can help investors pinpoint the top companies in a particular area.
For ORLY, shares are up 3.06% over the past week while the Zacks Automotive - Retail and Wholesale - Parts industry is up 4.15% over the same time period. Shares are looking quite well from a longer time frame too, as the monthly price change of 6.15% compares favorably with the industry's 0.77% performance as well.
Considering longer term price metrics, like performance over the last three months or year, can be advantageous as well. Over the past quarter, shares of O'Reilly Automotive have risen 2.44%, and are up 16.93% in the last year. On the other hand, the S&P 500 has only moved -2.71% and 16.77%, respectively.
Investors should also pay attention to ORLY's average 20-day trading volume. Volume is a useful item in many ways, and the 20-day average establishes a good price-to-volume baseline; a rising stock with above average volume is generally a bullish sign, whereas a declining stock on above average volume is typically bearish. ORLY is currently averaging 466,179 shares for the last 20 days.
Earnings Outlook
The Zacks Momentum Style Score also takes into account trends in estimate revisions, in addition to price changes. Please note that estimate revision trends remain at the core of Zacks Rank as well. A nice path here can help show promise, and we have recently been seeing that with ORLY.
Over the past two months, 12 earnings estimates moved higher compared to none lower for the full year. These revisions helped boost ORLY's consensus estimate, increasing from $37.56 to $38.14 in the past 60 days. Looking at the next fiscal year, 10 estimates have moved upwards while there have been 1 downward revision in the same time period.
Bottom Line
Taking into account all of these elements, it should come as no surprise that ORLY is a #2 (Buy) stock with a Momentum Score of B. If you've been searching for a fresh pick that's set to rise in the near-term, make sure to keep O'Reilly Automotive on your short list.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
O'Reilly Automotive, Inc. (ORLY) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research
Related Quotes