url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/asml-holding-n-v-ams-092340398.html
title:ASML_Holding_NVs_AMSASML_Stocks_On_An_Uptrend_Are_Strong_Financials_Guiding_The_Market
ASML Holding (AMS:ASML) has had a great run on the share market with its stock up by a significant 8.7% over the last month. Given that the market rewards strong financials in the long-term, we wonder if that is the case in this instance. In this article, we decided to focus on ASML Holding's  ROE.
Return on Equity or ROE is a test of how effectively a company is growing its value and managing investors’ money. Put another way, it reveals the company's success at turning shareholder investments into profits.
 View our latest analysis for ASML Holding 
ROE can be calculated by using the formula:
Return on Equity = Net Profit (from continuing operations) ÷ Shareholders' Equity
So, based on the above formula, the ROE for ASML Holding is:
63% = €7.6b ÷ €12b (Based on the trailing twelve months to October 2023).
The 'return' is the income the business earned over the last year. One way to conceptualize this is that for each €1 of shareholders' capital it has, the company made €0.63 in profit.
We have already established that ROE serves as an efficient profit-generating gauge for a company's future earnings. Based on how much of its profits the company chooses to reinvest or "retain", we are then able to evaluate a company's future ability to generate profits. Assuming everything else remains unchanged, the higher the ROE and profit retention, the higher the growth rate of a company compared to companies that don't necessarily bear these characteristics.
To begin with, ASML Holding has a pretty high ROE which is interesting. Secondly, even when compared to the industry average of 18% the company's ROE is quite impressive. Under the circumstances, ASML Holding's considerable five year net income growth of 26% was to be expected.
We then performed a comparison between ASML Holding's net income growth with the industry, which revealed that the company's growth is similar to the average industry growth of 25% in the same 5-year period.
Earnings growth is a huge factor in stock valuation. The investor should try to establish if the expected growth or decline in earnings, whichever the case may be, is priced in. Doing so will help them establish if the stock's future looks promising or ominous. Has the market priced in the future outlook for ASML? You can find out in our latest intrinsic value infographic research report. 
ASML Holding has a three-year median payout ratio of 32% (where it is retaining 68% of its income) which is not too low or not too high. By the looks of it, the dividend is well covered and ASML Holding is reinvesting its profits efficiently as evidenced by its exceptional growth which we discussed above.
Besides, ASML Holding has been paying dividends for at least ten years or more. This shows that the company is committed to sharing profits with its shareholders. Based on the latest analysts' estimates, we found that the company's future payout ratio over the next three years is expected to hold steady at 30%. As a result, ASML Holding's ROE is not expected to change by much either, which we inferred from the analyst estimate of 62% for future ROE.
On the whole, we feel that ASML Holding's performance has been quite good. Particularly, we like that the company is reinvesting heavily into its business, and at a high rate of return. Unsurprisingly, this has led to an impressive earnings growth. With that said, the latest industry analyst forecasts reveal that the company's earnings growth is expected to slow down. Are these analysts expectations based on the broad expectations for the industry, or on the company's fundamentals? Click here to be taken to our analyst's forecasts page for the company.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.