url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/weakness-cognizant-technology-solutions-corporation-110027532.html
title:Is_Weakness_In_Cognizant_Technology_Solutions_Corporation_NASDAQCTSH_Stock_A_Sign_That_The_Market_Could_be_Wrong_Given_Its_Strong_Financial_Prospects
Cognizant Technology Solutions (NASDAQ:CTSH) has had a rough three months with its share price down 6.0%. But if you pay close attention, you might gather that its strong financials could mean that the stock could potentially see an increase in value in the long-term, given how markets usually reward companies with good financial health. Particularly, we will be paying attention to Cognizant Technology Solutions'  ROE today.
Return on equity or ROE is a key measure used to assess how efficiently a company's management is utilizing the company's capital. In short, ROE shows the profit each dollar generates with respect to its shareholder investments.
 Check out our latest analysis for Cognizant Technology Solutions 
The formula for return on equity is:
Return on Equity = Net Profit (from continuing operations) ÷ Shareholders' Equity
So, based on the above formula, the ROE for Cognizant Technology Solutions is:
16% = US$2.1b ÷ US$13b (Based on the trailing twelve months to September 2023).
The 'return' is the yearly profit. So, this means that for every $1 of its shareholder's investments, the company generates a profit of $0.16.
Thus far, we have learned that ROE measures how efficiently a company is generating its profits. Depending on how much of these profits the company reinvests or "retains", and how effectively it does so, we are then able to assess a company’s earnings growth potential. Assuming all else is equal, companies that have both a higher return on equity and higher profit retention are usually the ones that have a higher growth rate when compared to companies that don't have the same features.
To begin with, Cognizant Technology Solutions seems to have a respectable ROE. Even when compared to the industry average of 14% the company's ROE looks quite decent. This probably goes some way in explaining Cognizant Technology Solutions' moderate 5.1% growth over the past five years amongst other factors.
Next, on comparing with the industry net income growth, we found that Cognizant Technology Solutions' reported growth was lower than the industry growth of 22% over the last few years, which is not something we like to see.
Earnings growth is a huge factor in stock valuation. The investor should try to establish if the expected growth or decline in earnings, whichever the case may be, is priced in. This then helps them determine if the stock is placed for a bright or bleak future. Is CTSH fairly valued? This infographic on the company's intrinsic value  has everything you need to know.
Cognizant Technology Solutions has a three-year median payout ratio of 26%, which implies that it retains the remaining 74% of its profits. This suggests that its dividend is well covered, and given the decent growth seen by the company, it looks like management is reinvesting its earnings efficiently.
Besides, Cognizant Technology Solutions has been paying dividends over a period of six years. This shows that the company is committed to sharing profits with its shareholders. Upon studying the latest analysts' consensus data, we found that the company is expected to keep paying out approximately 24% of its profits over the next three years. Accordingly, forecasts suggest that Cognizant Technology Solutions' future ROE will be 16% which is again, similar to the current ROE.
On the whole, we feel that Cognizant Technology Solutions' performance has been quite good. In particular, it's great to see that the company is investing heavily into its business and along with a high rate of return, that has resulted in a respectable growth in its earnings. With that said, the latest industry analyst forecasts reveal that the company's earnings are expected to accelerate. To know more about the latest analysts predictions for the company, check out this visualization of analyst forecasts for the company.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.
Related Quotes