url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/think-buying-cognizant-technology-solutions-130012748.html
title:Should_You_Think_About_Buying_Cognizant_Technology_Solutions_Corporation_NASDAQCTSH_Now
Let's talk about the popular Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ:CTSH). The company's shares had a relatively subdued couple of weeks in terms of changes in share price, which continued to float around the range of US$65.34 to US$71.73. However, is this the true valuation level of the large-cap? Or is it currently undervalued, providing us with the opportunity to buy? Let’s take a look at Cognizant Technology Solutions’s outlook and value based on the most recent financial data to see if there are any catalysts for a price change.
 View our latest analysis for Cognizant Technology Solutions 
According to my price multiple model, which makes a comparison between the company's price-to-earnings ratio and the industry average, the stock price seems to be justfied. I’ve used the price-to-earnings ratio in this instance because there’s not enough visibility to forecast its cash flows. The stock’s ratio of 15.14x is currently trading in-line with its industry peers’ ratio, which means if you buy Cognizant Technology Solutions today, you’d be paying a relatively sensible price for it. So, is there another chance to buy low in the future? Given that Cognizant Technology Solutions’s share is fairly volatile (i.e. its price movements are magnified relative to the rest of the market) this could mean the price can sink lower, giving us an opportunity to buy later on. This is based on its high beta, which is a good indicator for share price volatility.
Investors looking for growth in their portfolio may want to consider the prospects of a company before buying its shares. Although value investors would argue that it’s the intrinsic value relative to the price that matter the most, a more compelling investment thesis would be high growth potential at a cheap price. With profit expected to grow by 30% over the next couple of years, the future seems bright for Cognizant Technology Solutions. It looks like higher cash flow is on the cards for the stock, which should feed into a higher share valuation.
Are you a shareholder? CTSH’s optimistic future growth appears to have been factored into the current share price, with shares trading around industry price multiples. However, there are also other important factors which we haven’t considered today, such as the financial strength of the company. Have these factors changed since the last time you looked at CTSH? Will you have enough conviction to buy should the price fluctuate below the industry PE ratio?
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping tabs on CTSH, now may not be the most advantageous time to buy, given it is trading around industry price multiples. However, the positive outlook is encouraging for CTSH, which means it’s worth diving deeper into other factors such as the strength of its balance sheet, in order to take advantage of the next price drop.
Keep in mind, when it comes to analysing a stock it's worth noting the risks involved. For example - Cognizant Technology Solutions has 1 warning sign we think you should be aware of.
If you are no longer interested in Cognizant Technology Solutions, you can use our free platform to see our list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.