url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/4-measures-indicate-cognizant-technology-140027206.html
title:These_4_Measures_Indicate_That_Cognizant_Technology_Solutions_NASDAQCTSH_Is_Using_Debt_Safely
David Iben put it well when he said, 'Volatility is not a risk we care about. What we care about is avoiding the permanent loss of capital.' So it might be obvious that you need to consider debt, when you think about how risky any given stock is, because too much debt can sink a company. As with many other companies Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation (NASDAQ:CTSH) makes use of debt. But the more important question is: how much risk is that debt creating?
Debt assists a business until the business has trouble paying it off, either with new capital or with free cash flow. Ultimately, if the company can't fulfill its legal obligations to repay debt, shareholders could walk away with nothing. While that is not too common, we often do see indebted companies permanently diluting shareholders because lenders force them to raise capital at a distressed price. Of course, plenty of companies use debt to fund growth, without any negative consequences. The first step when considering a company's debt levels is to consider its cash and debt together.
 View our latest analysis for Cognizant Technology Solutions 
The chart below, which you can click on for greater detail, shows that Cognizant Technology Solutions had US$646.0m in debt in June 2023; about the same as the year before. But on the other hand it also has US$2.10b in cash, leading to a US$1.45b net cash position.
According to the last reported balance sheet, Cognizant Technology Solutions had liabilities of US$3.06b due within 12 months, and liabilities of US$2.01b due beyond 12 months. On the other hand, it had cash of US$2.10b and US$3.76b worth of receivables due within a year. So it actually has US$786.0m more liquid assets than total liabilities.
This short term liquidity is a sign that Cognizant Technology Solutions could probably pay off its debt with ease, as its balance sheet is far from stretched. Succinctly put, Cognizant Technology Solutions boasts net cash, so it's fair to say it does not have a heavy debt load!
Cognizant Technology Solutions's EBIT was pretty flat over the last year, but that shouldn't be an issue given the it doesn't have a lot of debt. The balance sheet is clearly the area to focus on when you are analysing debt. But it is future earnings, more than anything, that will determine Cognizant Technology Solutions's ability to maintain a healthy balance sheet going forward. So if you're focused on the future you can check out this free report showing analyst profit forecasts.
But our final consideration is also important, because a company cannot pay debt with paper profits; it needs cold hard cash. While Cognizant Technology Solutions has net cash on its balance sheet, it's still worth taking a look at its ability to convert earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) to free cash flow, to help us understand how quickly it is building (or eroding) that cash balance. Over the most recent three years, Cognizant Technology Solutions recorded free cash flow worth 79% of its EBIT, which is around normal, given free cash flow excludes interest and tax. This free cash flow puts the company in a good position to pay down debt, when appropriate.
While we empathize with investors who find debt concerning, you should keep in mind that Cognizant Technology Solutions has net cash of US$1.45b, as well as more liquid assets than liabilities. The cherry on top was that in converted 79% of that EBIT to free cash flow, bringing in US$2.2b. So is Cognizant Technology Solutions's debt a risk? It doesn't seem so to us. There's no doubt that we learn most about debt from the balance sheet. But ultimately, every company can contain risks that exist outside of the balance sheet. These risks can be hard to spot. Every company has them, and we've spotted   1 warning sign for Cognizant Technology Solutions   you should know about.
Of course, if you're the type of investor who prefers buying stocks without the burden of debt, then don't hesitate to discover our exclusive list of net cash growth stocks, today.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.