url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/weakness-microchip-technology-incorporated-nasdaq-133632287.html
title:Is_Weakness_In_Microchip_Technology_Incorporated_NASDAQMCHP_Stock_A_Sign_That_The_Market_Could_be_Wrong_Given_Its_Strong_Financial_Prospects
Microchip Technology (NASDAQ:MCHP) has had a rough three months with its share price down 9.9%. However, a closer look at its sound financials might cause you to think again. Given that fundamentals usually drive long-term market outcomes, the company is worth looking at. Specifically, we decided to study Microchip Technology's  ROE in this article.
ROE or return on equity is a useful tool to assess how effectively a company can generate returns on the investment it received from its shareholders. In other words, it is a profitability ratio which measures the rate of return on the capital provided by the company's shareholders.
 Check out our latest analysis for Microchip Technology 
The formula for return on equity is:
Return on Equity = Net Profit (from continuing operations) ÷ Shareholders' Equity
So, based on the above formula, the ROE for Microchip Technology is:
36% = US$2.5b ÷ US$7.0b (Based on the trailing twelve months to September 2023).
The 'return' is the amount earned after tax over the last twelve months. That means that for every $1 worth of shareholders' equity, the company generated $0.36 in profit.
So far, we've learned that ROE is a measure of a company's profitability. We now need to evaluate how much profit the company reinvests or "retains" for future growth which then gives us an idea about the growth potential of the company. Assuming everything else remains unchanged, the higher the ROE and profit retention, the higher the growth rate of a company compared to companies that don't necessarily bear these characteristics.
Firstly, we acknowledge that Microchip Technology has a significantly high ROE. Additionally, the company's ROE is higher compared to the industry average of 14% which is quite remarkable. Under the circumstances, Microchip Technology's considerable five year net income growth of 46% was to be expected.
As a next step, we compared Microchip Technology's net income growth with the industry, and pleasingly, we found that the growth seen by the company is higher than the average industry growth of 31%.
Earnings growth is a huge factor in stock valuation. It’s important for an investor to know whether the market has priced in the company's expected earnings growth (or decline). By doing so, they will have an idea if the stock is headed into clear blue waters or if swampy waters await. Is MCHP fairly valued? This infographic on the company's intrinsic value  has everything you need to know.
Microchip Technology's three-year median payout ratio is a pretty moderate 39%, meaning the company retains 61% of its income. By the looks of it, the dividend is well covered and Microchip Technology is reinvesting its profits efficiently as evidenced by its exceptional growth which we discussed above.
Besides, Microchip Technology has been paying dividends for at least ten years or more. This shows that the company is committed to sharing profits with its shareholders. Based on the latest analysts' estimates, we found that the company's future payout ratio over the next three years is expected to hold steady at 42%. Accordingly, forecasts suggest that Microchip Technology's future ROE will be 43% which is again, similar to the current ROE.
Overall, we are quite pleased with Microchip Technology's performance. Specifically, we like that the company is reinvesting a huge chunk of its profits at a high rate of return. This of course has caused the company to see substantial growth in its earnings. Having said that, on studying current analyst estimates, we were concerned to see that while the company has grown its earnings in the past, analysts expect its earnings to shrink in the future. To know more about the company's future earnings growth forecasts take a look at this free report on analyst forecasts for the company to find out more.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.