url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/5-brand-items-dollar-tree-182636434.html
title:5_BrandNew_Items_at_Dollar_Tree_That_Cost_Way_More_at_Target
Families in rural areas often struggle with finding affordable food. A recent study reported by GOBankingRates found that dollar stores have become the fastest growing retail segment for grocery shopping, increasing by 1%. Meanwhile, stores like Walmart and Target grew by 1.5%.
Social Security Cuts: States That Would Be Impacted The LeastFlorida’s Retirees Are Fleeing: Here’s Where They’re Going Instead
You might think of Dollar Tree and other dollar stores as the home of off-off-brand cereals or products that only sit on shelfs at other stores. But shoppers are finding that Dollar Tree sells some of the same shelf-stable merchandise as supercenters like Target and Walmart — often for half the price.
TikTok account Dollar Tree Dinners, which shows people how to cook healthy and filling meals with ingredients from Dollar Tree, recently revealed some incredible bargains.
For those looking to reduce carbs or calories and want to flavor their water, drink powders are a hot (or cold!) trend. Dollar Tree has the Sunkist brand for just $1.25. Target, meanwhile, sells the Crystal Light variety for $2.59. The Sunkist brand is actually better for many people, since Crystal Light contains aspartame, which may cause allergic reactions in some people.
Even Target’s store brand water flavoring costs more, with a 30-pack going for $4.99, compared to $1.25 for a 10-pack at Dollar Tree.
Hidden Gems: Affordable Luxury Goods at Aldi
Name-brand Stove Top stuffing is a steal for $1.25 at Dollar Tree. The same product is $2.49 at Target.
Artificial crabmeat is perfect for homemade sushi, easy crab bisque soup or crab dip. You can find name brand Chicken of the Sea Crabmeat, the same company known for canned tuna, in pouches for just $1.25 at Dollar Tree.
Target doesn’t seem to carry the exact same product, but imitation crab meat ranges from $3.19 for 6 oz. to $3.69 for 8 oz. at Target. Dollar Tree’s $1 pouch is 2.5 oz., so it’s still the better deal.
When you comparison shop, you always want to check package sizes to ensure you’re really saving money. In the case of artificial crab meat, Dollar Tree prices beat out competitors.
Dried and roasted seaweed is a fantastic, low-calorie and low-carb snack. Dollar Tree has snack packages available for just $1.25, while Target sells a similar snack for $2.19 per package. Even if you compare the 4-pack in Target for $4.69, you’ll still save money at Dollar Tree.
Find Splenda Coffee Creamer in your choice of Sweet Cream or French Vanilla at Dollar Tree for $1.25 for an 8 oz. bottle. Target sells the 32 oz. size of Coffee Mate brand for $4.49 or the International Delight for $3.99. That means you can actually get a better deal at Target, but if you don’t need 32 oz. of coffee creamer, Dollar Tree still offers a pretty good price.
More From GOBankingRates
Grant Cardone: Passive Income Is the Key To Building Wealth -- Here's My No. 1 Tip
10 of the Most Valuable Pennies
3 Ways to Recession Proof Your Retirement
Experts Share the 6 Best Money Moves To Make Before Retiring
This article originally appeared on GOBankingRates.com: 5 Brand-New Items at Dollar Tree That Cost Way More at Target
Related Quotes