url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/rachel-cruze-top-5-must-120031753.html
title:Rachel_Cruze_Top_5_MustBuys_at_Dollar_Stores
Most savvy shoppers know the dollar store has tons of inexpensive deals on everything from decorations to snacks. While everything is priced at a dollar, how do you know you’re getting the best buys for your money?
In an episode of dollar store items among your top five must-buys?
See: Don’t Shop at Dollar Tree on This Day of the WeekRead More: How To Get Cash Back on Your Everyday Purchases
While Cruze said she’s not a card person, she can’t resist purchasing cards at the dollar store.
Shoppers can find cards at the dollar store for a wide range of holidays, including birthdays and major holidays. They also save money buying cards for just a buck as compared to greeting card storefronts, where cards are much more expensive.
You can even score big deals on greeting cards at the dollar store. Alli Powell, digital creator behind the Instagram handle @grocerygettinggirl, highlighted greeting cards in a viral Instagram Reel as one of the things she buys at Dollar Tree to save money. At Powell’s local Dollar Tree, greeting cards are priced at two for one dollar.
Related: 8 Best Items To Buy at Dollar Tree This Fall
The next time you need a new comb or hairbrush, pick them up at the dollar store. These hair supplies are much cheaper at the dollar store compared to retailers like Target, which Cruze said will mark up the price several dollars.
Powell also stocks up on hair supplies at the dollar store, including bobby pins and hair ties. In the video caption, she wrote her Dollar Tree has tons of different types of hair supplies for sale.
Another one of Cruze’s must-buys at the dollar store are coloring books for her children. She also likes to purchase sticker books and stickers to keep the kids entertained. You’re only paying a dollar for fun!
Stickers made the list of Powell’s favorite household items to buy at Dollar Tree. In addition to stickers, she also stocks up on craft supplies, including finger paints. Powell wrote in her video caption that even a pool noodle knife can be purchased for crafting purposes.
If you can find window cleaners or dust cleaners at your local dollar store, Cruze recommends stocking up on these buys to cut down on household cleaning costs.
Party supplies are a favorite must-buy for Cruze and Powell at the dollar store.
At her local Dollar Tree, Powell buys party decorations, including banners, gift bags and tissue paper. She also buys birthday candles at Dollar Tree and offers up the pro tip for shoppers to purchase a few candle packs to keep on hand.
Whether you’re celebrating a birthday or the holidays, Cruze recommends getting your wrapping paper and bows from the dollar store. “Let’s be honest: It’s just gonna be thrown away within a few minutes anyway, so dollar it up!”
More From GOBankingRates
Robert Kiyosaki Shares 7 Steps To Reach Your Financial Goals
19 Dangerous Scam Phone Numbers and Area Codes To Avoid
3 Ways to Recession Proof Your Retirement
48 Easy Things You Can Do To Live Better and Save Money
This article originally appeared on GOBankingRates.com: Rachel Cruze: Top 5 Must-Buys at Dollar Stores