url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/heres-why-fastenal-fast-strong-135006369.html
title:Heres_Why_Fastenal_FAST_is_a_Strong_Momentum_Stock
It doesn't matter your age or experience: taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals for all investors.
Many investors also have a go-to methodology that helps guide their buy and sell decisions. One way to find winning stocks based on your preferred way of investing is to use the Zacks Style Scores, which are indicators that rate stocks based on three widely-followed investing types: value, growth, and momentum.
Is This 1 Momentum Stock a Screaming Buy Right Now?
For momentum investors, upward or downward trends in a stock's price or earnings outlook take precedent, so they'll want to zero in on the Momentum Style Score. This Score can pinpoint good times to build a position in a stock, using factors like one-week price change and the monthly percentage change in earnings estimates.
Fastenal (FAST)
Based in Winona, MN, Fastenal Company is a national wholesale distributor of industrial and construction supplies. The company distributes its products through more than 3,200 company-owned stores, mostly located in North America.
FAST boasts a Momentum Style Score of B and VGM Score of B, and holds a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) rating. Shares of Fastenal has seen some interesting price action recently; the stock is up 3.2% over the past one week and up 7.1% over the past four weeks. And in the last one-year period, FAST has gained 22.7%. As for the stock's trading volume, 4,461,997.50 shares on average were traded over the last 20 days.
Momentum investors don't just pay attention to price changes; positive earnings play a crucial role, too. Seven analysts revised their earnings estimate upwards in the last 60 days for fiscal 2023. The Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0.02 to $2 per share. FAST boasts an average earnings surprise of 2.6%.
FAST should be on investors' short list because of its impressive earnings fundamentals, a good Zacks Rank, and strong Momentum and VGM Style Scores.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Fastenal Company (FAST) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research