url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-fastenal-fast-top-momentum-135006326.html
title:Why_Fastenal_FAST_is_a_Top_Momentum_Stock_for_the_LongTerm
For new and old investors, taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals.
Achieving those goals is made easier with the Zacks Style Scores, a unique set of guidelines that rates stocks based on popular investing methodologies, namely value, growth, and momentum. The Style Scores can help you narrow down which stocks are better for your portfolio and which ones can beat the market over the long-term.
Is This 1 Momentum Stock a Screaming Buy Right Now?
For momentum investors, upward or downward trends in a stock's price or earnings outlook take precedent, so they'll want to zero in on the Momentum Style Score. This Score can pinpoint good times to build a position in a stock, using factors like one-week price change and the monthly percentage change in earnings estimates.
Fastenal (FAST)
Based in Winona, MN, Fastenal Company is a national wholesale distributor of industrial and construction supplies. The company distributes its products through more than 3,200 company-owned stores, mostly located in North America.
FAST boasts a Momentum Style Score of A and VGM Score of B, and holds a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) rating. Shares of Fastenal has seen some interesting price action recently; the stock is up 6% over the past one week and up 9.1% over the past four weeks. And in the last one-year period, FAST has gained 29.9%. As for the stock's trading volume, 3,822,198.75 shares on average were traded over the last 20 days.
A company's earnings performance is important for momentum investors as well. For fiscal 2023, five analysts revised their earnings estimate higher in the last 60 days for FAST, while the Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0.02 to $2 per share. FAST also boasts an average earnings surprise of 2.6%.
Investors should take the time to consider FAST for their portfolios due to its solid Zacks Ranks, notable earnings metrics, and impressive Momentum and VGM Style Scores.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Fastenal Company (FAST) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research