url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/diamondback-energy-inc-nasdaq-fang-183336650.html
title:Diamondback_Energy_Inc_NASDAQFANG_Q3_2023_Earnings_Call_Transcript
Diamondback Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ:FANG) Q3 2023 Earnings Call Transcript November 7, 2023
Operator: Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Diamondback Energy Third Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker’s presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Adam Lawlis, VP of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.
Adam Lawlis: Thank you, Steven. Good morning, and welcome to Diamondback Energy’s third quarter 2023 conference call. During our call today, we will reference an updated investor presentation and Letter to Stockholders, which can be found on Diamondback’s website. Representing Diamondback today are Travis Stice, Chairman and CEO; Kaes Van't Hof, President and CFO; and Danny Wesson, COO. During this conference call, the participants may make certain forward-looking statements relating to the Company's financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and businesses. We caution you that actual results could differ materially from those that are indicated in these forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors.
Information concerning these factors can be found in Company's filings with the SEC. In addition, we will make reference to certain non-GAAP measures. The reconciliations with the appropriate GAAP measures can be found in our earnings release issued yesterday afternoon. I'll now turn the call over to Travis Stice.
Travis D. Stice: Thank you, Adam, and good morning to everyone. As Adam mentioned, we released a Shareholder Letter last night that contains much of the narrative we hope to cover again this morning. So with that, we'll just open the lines up for question. Operator?
See also 11 Best Transportation Stocks To Buy Heading Into 2024 and 20 Best Online Jewelry Stores In the World.
To continue reading the Q&A session, please click here.
Related Quotes