url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/diamondback-energy-fang-expected-beat-140042248.html
title:Diamondback_Energy_FANG_Expected_to_Beat_Earnings_Estimates_Can_the_Stock_Move_Higher
Diamondback Energy (FANG) is expected to deliver a year-over-year decline in earnings on lower revenues when it reports results for the quarter ended September 2023. This widely-known consensus outlook gives a good sense of the company's earnings picture, but how the actual results compare to these estimates is a powerful factor that could impact its near-term stock price.
The earnings report, which is expected to be released on November 6, 2023, might help the stock move higher if these key numbers are better than expectations. On the other hand, if they miss, the stock may move lower.
While management's discussion of business conditions on the earnings call will mostly determine the sustainability of the immediate price change and future earnings expectations, it's worth having a handicapping insight into the odds of a positive EPS surprise.
Zacks Consensus Estimate
This energy exploration and production company is expected to post quarterly earnings of $4.90 per share in its upcoming report, which represents a year-over-year change of -24.4%.
Revenues are expected to be $2.18 billion, down 10.7% from the year-ago quarter.
Estimate Revisions Trend
The consensus EPS estimate for the quarter has been revised 8.42% higher over the last 30 days to the current level. This is essentially a reflection of how the covering analysts have collectively reassessed their initial estimates over this period.
Investors should keep in mind that an aggregate change may not always reflect the direction of estimate revisions by each of the covering analysts.
Earnings Whisper
Estimate revisions ahead of a company's earnings release offer clues to the business conditions for the period whose results are coming out. Our proprietary surprise prediction model -- the Zacks Earnings ESP (Expected Surprise Prediction) -- has this insight at its core.
The Zacks Earnings ESP compares the Most Accurate Estimate to the Zacks Consensus Estimate for the quarter; the Most Accurate Estimate is a more recent version of the Zacks Consensus EPS estimate. The idea here is that analysts revising their estimates right before an earnings release have the latest information, which could potentially be more accurate than what they and others contributing to the consensus had predicted earlier.
Thus, a positive or negative Earnings ESP reading theoretically indicates the likely deviation of the actual earnings from the consensus estimate. However, the model's predictive power is significant for positive ESP readings only.
A positive Earnings ESP is a strong predictor of an earnings beat, particularly when combined with a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), 2 (Buy) or 3 (Hold). Our research shows that stocks with this combination produce a positive surprise nearly 70% of the time, and a solid Zacks Rank actually increases the predictive power of Earnings ESP.
Please note that a negative Earnings ESP reading is not indicative of an earnings miss. Our research shows that it is difficult to predict an earnings beat with any degree of confidence for stocks with negative Earnings ESP readings and/or Zacks Rank of 4 (Sell) or 5 (Strong Sell).
How Have the Numbers Shaped Up for Diamondback?
For Diamondback, the Most Accurate Estimate is higher than the Zacks Consensus Estimate, suggesting that analysts have recently become bullish on the company's earnings prospects. This has resulted in an Earnings ESP of +0.84%.
On the other hand, the stock currently carries a Zacks Rank of #3.
So, this combination indicates that Diamondback will most likely beat the consensus EPS estimate.
Does Earnings Surprise History Hold Any Clue?
While calculating estimates for a company's future earnings, analysts often consider to what extent it has been able to match past consensus estimates. So, it's worth taking a look at the surprise history for gauging its influence on the upcoming number.
For the last reported quarter, it was expected that Diamondback would post earnings of $3.92 per share when it actually produced earnings of $3.68, delivering a surprise of -6.12%.
Over the last four quarters, the company has beaten consensus EPS estimates just once.
Bottom Line
An earnings beat or miss may not be the sole basis for a stock moving higher or lower. Many stocks end up losing ground despite an earnings beat due to other factors that disappoint investors. Similarly, unforeseen catalysts help a number of stocks gain despite an earnings miss.
That said, betting on stocks that are expected to beat earnings expectations does increase the odds of success. This is why it's worth checking a company's Earnings ESP and Zacks Rank ahead of its quarterly release. Make sure to utilize our Earnings ESP Filter to uncover the best stocks to buy or sell before they've reported.
Diamondback appears a compelling earnings-beat candidate. However, investors should pay attention to other factors too for betting on this stock or staying away from it ahead of its earnings release.
Expected Results of an Industry Player
Murphy Oil (MUR), another stock in the Zacks Oil and Gas - Exploration and Production - United States industry, is expected to report earnings per share of $1.34 for the quarter ended September 2023. This estimate points to a year-over-year change of -27.2%. Revenues for the quarter are expected to be $899.35 million, down 31% from the year-ago quarter.
Over the last 30 days, the consensus EPS estimate for Murphy Oil has been revised 17.4% up to the current level. Nevertheless, the company now has an Earnings ESP of 1.77%, reflecting a higher Most Accurate Estimate.
This Earnings ESP, combined with its Zacks Rank #2 (Buy), suggests that Murphy Oil will most likely beat the consensus EPS estimate. The company beat consensus EPS estimates in each of the trailing four quarters.
Stay on top of upcoming earnings announcements with the Zacks Earnings Calendar.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Diamondback Energy, Inc. (FANG) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Murphy Oil Corporation (MUR) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research