url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/10-high-risk-high-reward-102359585.html
title:10_High_Risk_High_Reward_Businesses_in_the_US
In this article, we will take a look at the 10 high risk high reward businesses in the US. If you want to skip our detailed analysis, you can go directly to 5 High Risk High Reward Businesses in the US. On September 22, EY published a report on the US economy. According to the report, the economic outlook refutes the chances of a possible recession amidst strong predictions made at the start of the year. However, the risk persists. As for the labor market, the US hit a record for a job gain of 187,000 in August. Moreover, the report suggests that consumer spending will advance 2.5% in 2023 and grow by 1.3% in 2024. All these factors combined are good signs for businesses and business owners. However, the Fed's actions will define the economic future of the United States. While many experts suggest that the Fed's tightening cycle is complete, there may be noise around an interest rate hike towards the year-end. 
Regardless of the economic outcome of the United States, companies continue to invest in new technologies and startups continue to spring. Such can primarily be attributed to the US government's significant technological investments. On May 12, CNBC reported that the Department of Commerce announced a funding opportunity to turn metro areas into Tech Hubs. The initial $500 million investment for the Regional Technology and Innovation Hub program, also known as Tech Hubs, involves facilitating groups designated with business resources and funding. The report also states that Congress allocated $10 billion between the fiscal years 2023 and 2027, and $500 million will be awarded before the end of 2023. You can also check out 10 industries being revolutionized with artificial intelligence and automation technologies. The unwavering government support explains why budding entrepreneurs continue to build new businesses. One example is Stripe, a financial services and SaaS company in the United States. Founded in 2010, the company has grown to offer services in 46 countries. On September 18, Stripe added new features to its optimized checkout suite. Businesses now have access to more than 100 global payment methods, allowing them to boost their revenue and enhance their conversion rates. Moreover, Stripe is the first payment platform that allows users to run A/B tests, allowing them to compare payment methods at their checkouts.
According to our research, some of the key industries offering high returns in the United States are the healthcare industry, the software industry, and the semiconductor industry. Some of the prominent stocks in these industries include Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO), Salesforce, Inc. (NYSE:CRM), and GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. (NASDAQ:GEHC). You can also check out some of the best high risk high reward stocks here.Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) is a semiconductor manufacturing company based in the United States. On September 26, Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) reported its partnership with Google Cloud to enhance AI-powered cybersecurity. Symantec is a division of Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO) and is partnering with Google Cloud to embed generative AI in the Symantec Security platform. Users of the platform will be able to detect and understand cybersecurity attacks. Additionally, the capabilities of the Google Cloud Security AI Workbench will be combined with a security-specific large language model. Symantec will leverage these capabilities to enable natural language interfaces. These interfaces will generate detailed yet easy-to-understand threat analysis.Salesforce, Inc. (NYSE:CRM) is a leading software company based in the United States. On October 23, Salesforce, Inc. (NYSE:CRM) announced the launch of the new Life Sciences Cloud, an artificial intelligence-backed CRM platform for pharmaceutical and medtech organizations. Salesforce, Inc. (NYSE:CRM) believes that the medical industry requires access to consistent and secure data, and the gap provides a perfect opportunity for the company to launch a new and improved CRM, exploring the unmet needs in healthcare sector. The CRM combines clinical and non-clinical information to develop profiles of patients and assign them to specific therapies. Such significantly enhances the efficacy of healthcare systems.GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. (NASDAQ:GEHC) is a medical technology company based in the United States. On October 26, GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. (NASDAQ:GEHC) announced its collaboration with reLink Medical. The collaboration will bring top notch asset management solutions to healthcare providers. These solutions will be aimed at minimizing waste, increasing operational efficiency, and maximizing equipment utilization. Moreover, the collaboration also offers a standardized medical equipment management solution involving the selling, recycling, or donating of medical equipment if it is not needed anymore.GE HealthCare Technologies Inc.'s (NASDAQ:GEHC) commitment to investing in new and improved solutions explains the strong financial results of the company. On October 31, GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. (NASDAQ:GEHC) reported earnings for the fiscal third quarter of 2023. GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. (NASDAQ:GEHC) reported earnings per share of $0.99, outperforming EPS estimates by $0.09. GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. (NASDAQ:GEHC) reported revenue worth $4.82 billion, up 5.38% year over year and ahead of market consensus by $20.87 million.High risk high reward businesses may be an attractive option to investors with the belief that a high risk may also result in a high return. With that, let's now look at the 10 high risk high reward businesses in the US.
10 High Risk High Reward Businesses in the US Our Methodology For the 10 high risk high reward businesses in the US, we picked two metrics: the industry average net margins and the industry average beta value. The industry average net margin is an indicator of financial reward or return. Hence, a higher net margin indicates that a business or industry offers a higher return. On the other hand, in the finance world, the beta value represents the market risk or volatility of a stock. In our case, the beta values are calculated by compounding for a set number of businesses in an industry. A beta value greater than 1 suggests high risk, while a beta value of less than 1 is deemed less volatile or risky. We sourced our data from NYU Stern for the industry net margins and beta values. For our ranking, we first curated a list of the industries with the highest net margin. Of our initial pool of 20 industries, we ranked the items based on assessing the corresponding beta value. Of the industries with the highest net margins, the ones with the highest beta values were included in the list. The list of the 10 high risk high reward businesses in the United States is in ascending order of the beta value. We included possible and/or prominent business ideas that fall under the industry for further comprehension.
Beta Value as of January 2023: 1.06 Net Margins: 23.77% According to our methodology, the real estate industry is one of the prominent industries in the US offering high returns to business owners. Some of the popular business ideas in the real estate industry include becoming a real estate agent, a real estate investor, a real estate broker, or opening a real estate appraisal service business. Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO), Salesforce, Inc. (NYSE:CRM), and GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. (NASDAQ:GEHC) operate in some of the high growth and high reward industries in the United States.
Beta Value as of January 2023: 1.11 Net Margins: 27.65% With an industry average net margin of 27.65%, the railroad industry accounts for high risk high reward businesses in the United States. Prominent business domains in the railroad industry include offering services in railroad passenger transportation, freight transportation, and railroad maintenance and repair.
Beta Value as of January 2023: 1.15  Net Margins: 7% According to our methodology, the healthcare products industry ranks as one of the industries with the highest returns in the United States. Popular business domains in the healthcare products industry involve the production, distribution, supply, and marketing of medical products and devices.
Beta Value as of January 2023: 1.27 Net Margins: 18.35% The pharmaceuticals industry ranks among the high risk high reward businesses in the United States, with a net margin of 18.35%. Popular domains in this industry include drug discovery and development, clinical research, pharmaceutical distribution, and drug manufacturing and packaging to name a few.
Beta Value as of January 2023: 1.29 Net Margins: 16.68% According to our methodology, the computer and peripherals industry accounts for high risk high reward businesses in the United States, with a net margin of 16.68%. Prominent business ideas in this industry include starting a computer maintenance and repair business, a computer hardware business, and a computer accessories business to name a few. Broadcom Inc. (NASDAQ:AVGO), Salesforce, Inc. (NYSE:CRM), and GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. (NASDAQ:GEHC) are prominent companies in the United States with strong market positions. Click to continue reading and see 5 High Risk High Reward Businesses in the US. Suggested Articles:
12 Best High Risk High Reward Stocks To Buy Now
10 Industries Being Revolutionized By AI and Automation Technologies
10 Most Competitive Industries in the World
Disclosure: None. 10 High Risk High Reward Businesses in the US is originally published on Insider Monkey.