url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/institutional-owners-may-ignore-analog-110032046.html
title:Institutional_owners_may_ignore_Analog_Devices_Incs_NASDAQADI_recent_US30b_market_cap_decline_as_longerterm_profits_stay_in_the_green
Institutions' substantial holdings in Analog Devices implies that they have significant influence over the company's share price
51% of the business is held by the top 24 shareholders
Using data from analyst forecasts alongside ownership research, one can better assess the future performance of a company
A look at the shareholders of Analog Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:ADI) can tell us which group is most powerful. And the group that holds the biggest piece of the pie are institutions with 89% ownership. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).
Losing money on investments is something no shareholder enjoys, least of all institutional investors who saw their holdings value drop by 3.6% last week. However, the 13% one-year returns may have helped alleviate their overall losses. We would assume however, that they would be on the lookout for weakness in the future.
In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Analog Devices.
 Check out our latest analysis for Analog Devices 
Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.
We can see that Analog Devices does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. When multiple institutions own a stock, there's always a risk that they are in a 'crowded trade'. When such a trade goes wrong, multiple parties may compete to sell stock fast. This risk is higher in a company without a history of growth. You can see Analog Devices' historic earnings and revenue below, but keep in mind there's always more to the story.
Investors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. Hedge funds don't have many shares in Analog Devices. Our data shows that The Vanguard Group, Inc. is the largest shareholder with 9.2% of shares outstanding. With 8.2% and 4.2% of the shares outstanding respectively, BlackRock, Inc. and State Street Global Advisors, Inc. are the second and third largest shareholders.
After doing some more digging, we found that the top 24 have the combined ownership of 51% in the company, suggesting that no single shareholder has significant control over the company.
While it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.
While the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.
Most consider insider ownership a positive because it can indicate the board is well aligned with other shareholders. However, on some occasions too much power is concentrated within this group.
Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of Analog Devices, Inc.. Being so large, we would not expect insiders to own a large proportion of the stock. Collectively, they own US$280m of stock. Arguably recent buying and selling is just as important to consider. You can  click here to see if insiders have been buying or selling. 
With a 10% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Analog Devices. This size of ownership, while considerable, may not be enough to change company policy if the decision is not in sync with other large shareholders.
While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. Take risks for example - Analog Devices has   1 warning sign   we think you should be aware of.
Ultimately the future is most important. You can access this free report on analyst forecasts for the company.
NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.