url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/does-workday-nasdaq-wday-healthy-110030575.html
title:Does_Workday_NASDAQWDAY_Have_A_Healthy_Balance_Sheet
Some say volatility, rather than debt, is the best way to think about risk as an investor, but Warren Buffett famously said that 'Volatility is far from synonymous with risk.' It's only natural to consider a company's balance sheet when you examine how risky it is, since debt is often involved when a business collapses. We note that Workday, Inc. (NASDAQ:WDAY) does have debt on its balance sheet. But the real question is whether this debt is making the company risky.
Debt is a tool to help businesses grow, but if a business is incapable of paying off its lenders, then it exists at their mercy. If things get really bad, the lenders can take control of the business. However, a more frequent (but still costly) occurrence is where a company must issue shares at bargain-basement prices, permanently diluting shareholders, just to shore up its balance sheet. Of course, the upside of debt is that it often represents cheap capital, especially when it replaces dilution in a company with the ability to reinvest at high rates of return. The first step when considering a company's debt levels is to consider its cash and debt together.
 See our latest analysis for Workday 
The image below, which you can click on for greater detail, shows that Workday had debt of US$2.98b at the end of July 2023, a reduction from US$4.12b over a year. However, its balance sheet shows it holds US$6.66b in cash, so it actually has US$3.68b net cash.
Zooming in on the latest balance sheet data, we can see that Workday had liabilities of US$4.18b due within 12 months and liabilities of US$3.28b due beyond that. On the other hand, it had cash of US$6.66b and US$1.27b worth of receivables due within a year. So it can boast US$467.3m more liquid assets than total liabilities.
This state of affairs indicates that Workday's balance sheet looks quite solid, as its total liabilities are just about equal to its liquid assets. So while it's hard to imagine that the US$55.3b company is struggling for cash, we still think it's worth monitoring its balance sheet. Succinctly put, Workday boasts net cash, so it's fair to say it does not have a heavy debt load! When analysing debt levels, the balance sheet is the obvious place to start. But it is future earnings, more than anything, that will determine Workday's ability to maintain a healthy balance sheet going forward. So if you're focused on the future you can check out this free report showing analyst profit forecasts.
In the last year Workday wasn't profitable at an EBIT level, but managed to grow its revenue by 18%, to US$6.7b. We usually like to see faster growth from unprofitable companies, but each to their own.
Although Workday had an earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) loss over the last twelve months, it generated positive free cash flow of US$1.5b. So although it is loss-making, it doesn't seem to have too much near-term balance sheet risk, keeping in mind the net cash. With mediocre revenue growth in the last year, we're don't find the investment opportunity particularly compelling. The balance sheet is clearly the area to focus on when you are analysing debt. However, not all investment risk resides within the balance sheet - far from it. To that end, you should be aware of the   2 warning signs  we've spotted with Workday .
At the end of the day, it's often better to focus on companies that are free from net debt. You can access our special list of such companies (all with a track record of profit growth). It's free.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.