url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/regeneron-announces-investor-conference-presentations-200500282.html
title:Regeneron_Announces_Investor_Conference_Presentations
TARRYTOWN, N.Y., Oct. 25, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: REGN) will webcast management participation as follows:
BMO Biopharma Spotlight Series: Oncology at 9:30 a.m. ET on Wednesday, November 8, 2023
Truist Securities BioPharma Symposium at 3:20 p.m. ET on Wednesday, November 8, 2023
UBS Biopharma Conference at 11:00 a.m. ET on Thursday, November 9, 2023
Jefferies London Healthcare Conference at 2:30 p.m. GMT (9:30 a.m. ET) on Wednesday, November 15, 2023
The sessions may be accessed from the "Investors & Media" page of Regeneron's website at https://investor.regeneron.com/events-and-presentations. Replays and transcripts of the webcasts will be archived on the Company's website for at least 30 days.
About Regeneron  Regeneron is a leading biotechnology company that invents, develops, and commercializes life-transforming medicines for people with serious diseases. Founded and led for 35 years by physician-scientists, Regeneron's unique ability to repeatedly and consistently translate science into medicine has led to numerous FDA-approved treatments and product candidates in development, almost all of which were homegrown in Regeneron's laboratories.  Regeneron's medicines and pipeline are designed to help patients with eye diseases, allergic and inflammatory diseases, cancer, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, hematologic conditions, infectious diseases, and rare diseases.
Regeneron is accelerating and improving the traditional drug development process through its proprietary VelociSuite® technologies, such as VelocImmune®, which uses unique genetically humanized mice to produce optimized fully human antibodies and bispecific antibodies, and through ambitious research initiatives such as the Regeneron Genetics Center®, which is conducting one of the largest genetics sequencing efforts in the world.
For additional information about Regeneron, please visit www.regeneron.com or follow Regeneron on LinkedIn.
Contact Information:  Investor Relations  Ryan Crowe  914.847.8790  ryan.crowe@regeneron.com
