url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/eps-growth-more-keurig-dr-101443904.html
title:With_EPS_Growth_And_More_Keurig_Dr_Pepper_NASDAQKDP_Makes_An_Interesting_Case
It's common for many investors, especially those who are inexperienced, to buy shares in companies with a good story even if these companies are loss-making. Sometimes these stories can cloud the minds of investors, leading them to invest with their emotions rather than on the merit of good company fundamentals. Loss making companies can act like a sponge for capital - so investors should be cautious that they're not throwing good money after bad.
Despite being in the age of tech-stock blue-sky investing, many investors still adopt a more traditional strategy; buying shares in profitable companies like Keurig Dr Pepper (NASDAQ:KDP). Even if this company is fairly valued by the market, investors would agree that generating consistent profits will continue to provide Keurig Dr Pepper with the means to add long-term value to shareholders.
 Check out our latest analysis for Keurig Dr Pepper 
If you believe that markets are even vaguely efficient, then over the long term you'd expect a company's share price to follow its earnings per share (EPS) outcomes. So it makes sense that experienced investors pay close attention to company EPS when undertaking investment research. Keurig Dr Pepper managed to grow EPS by 14% per year, over three years. That growth rate is fairly good, assuming the company can keep it up.
One way to double-check a company's growth is to look at how its revenue, and earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) margins are changing. While we note Keurig Dr Pepper achieved similar EBIT margins to last year, revenue grew by a solid 8.1% to US$15b. That's progress.
The chart below shows how the company's bottom and top lines have progressed over time. To see the actual numbers, click on the chart.
In investing, as in life, the future matters more than the past. So why not check out this free interactive visualization of Keurig Dr Pepper's forecast profits?
Investors are always searching for a vote of confidence in the companies they hold and insider buying is one of the key indicators for optimism on the market. Because often, the purchase of stock is a sign that the buyer views it as undervalued. Of course, we can never be sure what insiders are thinking, we can only judge their actions.
We do note that, in the last year, insiders sold US$7.8m worth of shares. But that's far less than the US$8.7m insiders spent purchasing stock. This bodes well for Keurig Dr Pepper as it highlights the fact that those who are important to the company having a lot of faith in its future. It is also worth noting that it was company insider Karin Rotem-Wildeman who made the biggest single purchase, worth US$1.8m, paying US$34.37 per share.
Along with the insider buying, another encouraging sign for Keurig Dr Pepper is that insiders, as a group, have a considerable shareholding. We note that their impressive stake in the company is worth US$455m. Investors will appreciate management having this amount of skin in the game as it shows their commitment to the company's future.
One important encouraging feature of Keurig Dr Pepper is that it is growing profits. Better yet, insiders are significant shareholders, and have been buying more shares. That should do plenty in prompting budding investors to undertake a bit more research - or even adding the company to their watchlists. Still, you should learn about the   2 warning signs  we've spotted with Keurig Dr Pepper (including 1 which doesn't sit too well with us).
Keen growth investors love to see insider buying. Thankfully, Keurig Dr Pepper isn't the only one. You can see a a free list of them here.
Please note the insider transactions discussed in this article refer to reportable transactions in the relevant jurisdiction.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.