url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/spectrum-owner-sells-2-billion-210423116.html
title:Spectrum_Owner_Sells_2_Billion_Bond_for_Possible_Buyback
(Bloomberg) -- Charter Communications Inc. tapped the bond market Tuesday to raise capital for paying down debt and potential share buybacks, joining a flurry of issuers that are taking advantage of favorable funding conditions.
Most Read from Bloomberg
WeWork Goes Bankrupt, Signs Pact With Creditors to Cut Debt
Trump's Wealth Has Jumped $500 Million Since He Left the White House
Apple Delays Work on Next Year’s iPhone, Mac Software to Fix Bugs
S&P Defies Fed ‘Pushback’ in Longest Win Since ‘21: Markets Wrap
Trump Testimony Called a ‘Broken Record’ by Judge: Trial Update
The telecommunications company and owner of the Spectrum brand sold $2 billion in bonds split across two tranches, including a 10-year, $900 million note that yields 2.1 percentage points above US Treasuries, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The other, $1.1 billion tranche yields 1.5 percentage points above the benchmark, according to the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.
Price talk was initially at 2.3 percentage points above the benchmark for the 10-year bond, and at 1.75 percentage point over Treasuries for the three-year note. The bond offering was split-rated, meaning it could have attracted investors from both the high-yield and investment-grade markets.
The company’s offering comes after 11 issuers tapped the blue-chip market for more than $23 billion on Monday, including Roche Holdings Inc. and RTX Corp. Eight issuers are in the market Tuesday.
Broadly, market sentiment has been risk-on for investors and borrowers alike, after the Federal Reserve held rates steady last week and the latest jobs report showed signs of a slowing labor market, which could keep the central bank from raising rates further.
Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley managed Charter’s debt sale, the person said. Charter Communications declined to comment.
(Updates to show deal is priced.)
Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek
Elon Musk’s Brain Implant Startup Is Ready to Start Surgery
In Uruguay, a Tax Haven With Lots of Beaches and Little Crime
Private Equity Courts a Growing Class of Mini-Millionaires
Top-Ranked MBA Programs Struggle to Reverse Declining Applications
Marvel’s Latest Movie Will Show If Superheroes Ever Get Tired
©2023 Bloomberg L.P.
Related Quotes