url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/5-costco-bakery-items-aren-000119293.html
title:5_Costco_Bakery_Items_That_Arent_Worth_Buying
Many Costco shoppers head to the warehouse store to stock up on bulk essentials or find great deals on big-ticket items, but the bakery section can sometimes be overlooked. The warehouse club’s pastries and desserts can often be a sweet bargain as well — but not every bakery item is worth buying.
Experts: Here’s Why Nearly Every Purchase Should Be On a Credit CardFind Out: How To Get Cash Back on Your Everyday Purchases
Here’s a look at the Costco bakery items you should skip.
Sometimes there is such thing as too much of a good thing.
“Costco’s bakery section is known for its giant cakes and pastries. While they’re tempting, they’re often too large for the average household to finish before they go stale,” said Norah Clark, pastry chef and food editor at Boyd Hampers. “Unless you’re hosting a big gathering, consider the smaller options.”
Food: 13 Smarter Ways To Shop for GroceriesMore: Stores With Layaway in 2023: Extending Your Purchasing Power 
Clark said to stay away from Costco bread, which tends to have a shorter shelf life.
“Be cautious with items that have a short shelf life — if you can’t finish them quickly, they might not be worth it,” she said.
Amazon Prime Big Deal Days: 8 Items for Less Than $25 That Are Worth Buying
Costco sells bagels and muffins in bulk, which might not make sense for your household.
“Due to their large quantities, bagels and muffins can become stale faster than you can eat them,” Clark said. “If you’re not planning to consume them within a few days, it’s best to look for smaller packages.”
When it comes to buying baked goods at Costco, it’s usually the quantity rather than the quality that’s the issue.
“It’s not that these items are terrible, it’s just that they may not be the best choice for everyone,” Clark said. “Costco’s selection is vast, so you can always find something that suits your taste and needs better.”
More From GOBankingRates
65 Splurges of the Filthy Rich
How To Get Free Money: 13 Proven Ways
3 Things You Must Do When Your Savings Reach $50,000
10 Smartest Ways to Make Your Money Work for You, According to Experts
Photo disclaimer: Please note photos are for representational purposes only. As a result, some of the photos might not reflect the exact items listed in this article.
This article originally appeared on GOBankingRates.com: 5 Costco Bakery Items That Aren’t Worth Buying