url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/costco-membership-save-money-pet-130026614.html
title:How_To_Use_Your_Costco_Membership_To_Save_Money_on_Your_Pet
Owning a pet can be a major expense. A recent GOBankingRates survey found that 35% of pet owners spend between $600 and $1,200 on their pets every year.
Costco Will Give You Free Groceries in Exchange for Old Electronics; Here’s How To Take Advantage  Learn: How To Get Cash Back on Your Everyday Purchases
Fortunately, if you are a Costco member, you might be able to cut down on these costs. Here are some of the best ways to use your Costco membership to save money on your pet.
If you’re an environmentally conscious pet owner, you’ll be pleased with the prices of Costco’s eco-friendly pet supplies.
“Many eco-friendly pet products, such as biodegradable waste bags and natural pet shampoos, are available at a fraction of the cost per unit compared to regular retail stores,” said Mollie Newton, founder of the pet-care blog PetMeTwice. “This is fantastic for both your budget and the planet.”
Buying in bulk can often save you money — as long as these items don’t go to waste. That’s why pet food is a savvy item to buy in bulk.
“Costco presents a selection of top-tier pet food,” Newton said. “Opting for these items in larger quantities can translate into substantial long-term cost savings.”
Dr. Sabrina Kong, a veterinarian with We Love Doodles, recommends the store-brand pet food for high-quality food at a great price.
“Costco’s Kirkland Signature pet food offers quality nutrition at a fraction of the cost of some premium brands,” she said.
Like pet food, cat litter is another pet supply item you should buy in large quantities for the cost savings.
“So long as the items aren’t perishable, it’s worth considering purchasing items in bulk, as it’ll save you money in the long run — and it will minimize the risk of running out of an essential product at short notice. Cat litter is one of the first things I’d recommend,” said Madison Clasby, co-founder of the dog treat brand, Jack’s Premium. “You could also buy some litter box liners in bulk as well while you’re at it.”
Just as you can save big on prescriptions for yourself, Costco offers savings on pet medications as well.
“Costco offers many of the same medications prescribed and sold by your vet, but without the surcharge most vets tack onto these products,” said Daniel Caughill, co-founder of The Dog Tale, an online resource for dog owners. “You can get medicine to treat fleas and ticks, heartworm, diabetes, allergy relief, arthritis and anxiety.”
Costco members can access exclusive discounts on Figo Pet Insurance, and Costco Gold Star and Business Members can save even more.
“If you’re an upgraded Costco member, you can get a 15% discount on pet insurance, and you also can waive the enrollment fee [if you are an executive member],” said David Bakke, shopping blogger at DollarSanity.
“Costco’s pet beds are a steal,” said We Love Doodles’ Kong. “They’re plush, durable and often comparable in quality to higher-end brands.”
Survey methodology: GOBankingRates surveyed 1,021 Americans ages 18 and older from across the country between Oct. 12 and Oct. 16, 2023, asking 23 different questions: (1) How much did you spend on your pet in the last year?; (2) How much have you spent/are you planning to spend on Halloween this year?; (3) How much money do you spend on kid-related activities in a year?; (4) How much do you spend on average on your monthly utility bills (electric, heat/gas, water)?; (5) What spending/saving habits have you had to change in the past year due to inflation/rising prices? (Select all that apply.); (6) What was the biggest unexpected expense you had this year?; (7) How much do you currently spend on monthly car payments?; (8) Do you live in a single-income or dual-income household?; (9) In the past year, did you have to take on a side gig because of rising prices/inflation?; (10) How much do you bring home from your side job(s) each month?; (11) How much have your overall expenses gone up in the past year?; (12) What is your top financial priority to end 2023?; (13) What is the top way you’ve earned your money/gained wealth?; (14) Have you started financially preparing for 2024?; (15) How much have you spent on home upgrades in 2023?; (16) How will the resumption of student loan repayments affect your budget?; (17) How much do you currently owe in student loans?; (18) How much do you spend on yourself (not including housing, food, etc.) out of each paycheck?; (19) How much do you spend on online purchases per month?; (20) Where do you shop for groceries most often?; (21) Do you shop around for groceries to get better deals?; (22) What are you currently invested in? (Select all that apply.); and (23) What is the current value of your stock investments? GOBankingRates used PureSpectrum’s survey platform to conduct the poll.
More From GOBankingRates
Robert Kiyosaki's 6 Passive Income Ideas
10 of the Most Valuable Pennies
3 Ways to Recession Proof Your Retirement
Experts Share the 6 Best Money Moves To Make Before Retiring
This article originally appeared on GOBankingRates.com: How To Use Your Costco Membership To Save Money on Your Pet