url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/investing-automatic-data-processing-nasdaq-120027646.html
title:Investing_in_Automatic_Data_Processing_NASDAQADP_five_years_ago_would_have_delivered_you_a_65_gain
It hasn't been the best quarter for Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (NASDAQ:ADP) shareholders, since the share price has fallen 13% in that time. On the bright side the share price is up over the last half decade. However we are not very impressed because the share price is only up 49%, less than the market return of 68%.
So let's investigate and see if the longer term performance of the company has been in line with the underlying business' progress.
 View our latest analysis for Automatic Data Processing 
To quote Buffett, 'Ships will sail around the world but the Flat Earth Society will flourish. There will continue to be wide discrepancies between price and value in the marketplace...' One flawed but reasonable way to assess how sentiment around a company has changed is to compare the earnings per share (EPS) with the share price.
During five years of share price growth, Automatic Data Processing achieved compound earnings per share (EPS) growth of 14% per year. The EPS growth is more impressive than the yearly share price gain of 8% over the same period. So one could conclude that the broader market has become more cautious towards the stock.
The image below shows how EPS has tracked over time (if you click on the image you can see greater detail).
We know that Automatic Data Processing has improved its bottom line lately, but is it going to grow revenue? Check if analysts think Automatic Data Processing will grow revenue in the future.
It is important to consider the total shareholder return, as well as the share price return, for any given stock. Whereas the share price return only reflects the change in the share price, the TSR includes the value of dividends (assuming they were reinvested) and the benefit of any discounted capital raising or spin-off. So for companies that pay a generous dividend, the TSR is often a lot higher than the share price return. As it happens, Automatic Data Processing's TSR for the last 5 years was 65%, which exceeds the share price return mentioned earlier. This is largely a result of its dividend payments!
While the broader market gained around 16% in the last year, Automatic Data Processing shareholders lost 5.4% (even including dividends). However, keep in mind that even the best stocks will sometimes underperform the market over a twelve month period. Longer term investors wouldn't be so upset, since they would have made 11%, each year, over five years. It could be that the recent sell-off is an opportunity, so it may be worth checking the fundamental data for signs of a long term growth trend. While it is well worth considering the different impacts that market conditions can have on the share price, there are other factors that are even more important. For instance, we've identified   1 warning sign for Automatic Data Processing  that you should be aware of.
If you are like me, then you will not want to miss this free list of growing companies that insiders are buying.
Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on American exchanges.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.