url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/analysts-just-shaved-enphase-energy-120511616.html
title:Analysts_Just_Shaved_Their_Enphase_Energy_Inc_NASDAQENPH_Forecasts_Dramatically
Today is shaping up negative for Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ:ENPH) shareholders, with the analysts delivering a substantial negative revision to next year's forecasts. Both revenue and earnings per share (EPS) forecasts went under the knife, suggesting analysts have soured majorly on the business.
After the downgrade, the consensus from Enphase Energy's 37 analysts is for revenues of US$2.3b in 2024, which would reflect a not inconsiderable 14% decline in sales compared to the last year of performance. Statutory earnings per share are anticipated to crater 28% to US$3.01 in the same period. Before this latest update, the analysts had been forecasting revenues of US$3.0b and earnings per share (EPS) of US$4.64 in 2024. It looks like analyst sentiment has declined substantially, with a sizeable cut to revenue estimates and a pretty serious decline to earnings per share numbers as well.
 View our latest analysis for Enphase Energy 
It'll come as no surprise then, to learn that the analysts have cut their price target 25% to US$126.
One way to get more context on these forecasts is to look at how they compare to both past performance, and how other companies in the same industry are performing. These estimates imply that sales are expected to slow, with a forecast annualised revenue decline of 12% by the end of 2024. This indicates a significant reduction from annual growth of 42% over the last five years. By contrast, our data suggests that other companies (with analyst coverage) in the same industry are forecast to see their revenue grow 15% annually for the foreseeable future. It's pretty clear that Enphase Energy's revenues are expected to perform substantially worse than the wider industry.
The most important thing to take away is that analysts cut their earnings per share estimates, expecting a clear decline in business conditions. Unfortunately analysts also downgraded their revenue estimates, and industry data suggests that Enphase Energy's revenues are expected to grow slower than the wider market. After such a stark change in sentiment from analysts, we'd understand if readers now felt a bit wary of Enphase Energy.
With that said, the long-term trajectory of the company's earnings is a lot more important than next year. We have estimates - from multiple Enphase Energy analysts - going out to 2025, and you can see them free on our platform here.
Another way to search for interesting companies that could be  reaching an inflection point is to track whether management are buying or selling, with our free list of growing companies that insiders are buying.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.