url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/look-coparts-nasdaq-cprt-impressive-110121357.html
title:A_Look_Into_Coparts_NASDAQCPRT_Impressive_Returns_On_Capital
What trends should we look for it we want to identify stocks that can multiply in value over the long term? One common approach is to try and find a company with returns on capital employed (ROCE) that are increasing, in conjunction with a growing amount of capital employed. If you see this, it typically means it's a company with a great business model and plenty of profitable reinvestment opportunities. So, when we ran our eye over Copart's (NASDAQ:CPRT) trend of ROCE, we really liked what we saw.
For those who don't know, ROCE is a measure of a company's yearly pre-tax profit (its return), relative to the capital employed in the business. The formula for this calculation on Copart is:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) รท (Total Assets - Current Liabilities)
0.24 = US$1.5b รท (US$6.7b - US$493m) (Based on the trailing twelve months to July 2023).
Therefore, Copart has an ROCE of 24%. In absolute terms that's a great return and it's even better than the Commercial Services industry average of 8.5%.
 Check out our latest analysis for Copart 
Above you can see how the current ROCE for Copart compares to its prior returns on capital, but there's only so much you can tell from the past. If you'd like, you can check out the forecasts from the analysts covering Copart here  for free.
Copart deserves to be commended in regards to it's returns. The company has employed 208% more capital in the last five years, and the returns on that capital have remained stable at 24%. With returns that high, it's great that the business can continually reinvest its money at such appealing rates of return. If Copart can keep this up, we'd be very optimistic about its future.
In the end, the company has proven it can reinvest it's capital at high rates of returns, which you'll remember is a trait of a multi-bagger. And long term investors would be thrilled with the 244% return they've received over the last five years. So even though the stock might be more "expensive" than it was before, we think the strong fundamentals warrant this stock for further research.
On the other side of ROCE, we have to consider valuation. That's why we have a FREE intrinsic value estimation on our platform  that is definitely worth checking out.
Copart is not the only stock earning high returns. If you'd like to see more, check out our free list of companies earning high returns on equity with solid fundamentals.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.