url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/25-best-selling-items-facebook-192124819.html
title:25_Best_Selling_Items_on_Facebook_Marketplace
In this article, we will take a look at the 25 best selling items on Facebook marketplace. If you want to skip our detailed analysis, you can go directly to the 5 Best Selling Items on Facebook Marketplace.
Social commerce platforms have gained immense traction across the globe. According to a report by Grandview Research, the global social commerce platform market was valued at $727.63 billion in 2022. The global social commerce platform market is expected to grow to $6.2 trillion by 2030 at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 31.6%. The growing demand for online shopping, coupled with the ability to integrate entertainment and business, has significantly propelled the use of social commerce platforms among business owners.
Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:META) offers some of the most popular platforms for business owners aiming to promote their products and reach a global market. Facebook marketplace was introduced in 2016 and operates in 222 countries, independent regions, and territories. In 2020, Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:META) rolled out its full-screen storefront on Instagram. Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:META) consistently invests in improving the selling experience for business owners across all its platforms. You can also check out the countries with the most Facebook users and countries with the most Instagram users. 
On September 19, Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:META) reported the launch of Meta verified for business owners or creators. The new feature enables businesses to stand out on Instagram and Facebook to build consumer trust. Businesses can either subscribe to the verified tool for an individual platform or acquire a bundled subscription across Instagram, Facebook, and WhatsApp. The subscription will allow businesses to gain a toolkit, giving business owners access to a verified badge, access to support for troubleshooting issues, and added brand protection. On October 2, Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:META) posted an update on the new tool. The company has officially commenced testing Meta Verified with businesses on Instagram and Facebook in New Zealand. 
Pinterest, Inc. (NYSE:PINS) and Snap Inc. (NYSE:SNAP) are growing to become prominent players in the social commerce market, allowing small businesses to earn profits without having to resort to brick-and-mortar outlets. 
Pinterest, Inc. (NYSE:PINS) is a leading social media and image-sharing platform. Pinterest, Inc. (NYSE:PINS) allows business owners to set up a business account and link to their online store. On September 13, Pinterest, Inc. (NYSE:PINS) announced new features and products for users, advertisers, and agencies. According to the reports, over 465 million people use Pinterest, Inc. (NYSE:PINS) monthly to discover products and services and get inspired. The new slate of robust features includes Premiere Spotlight, Showcase ads, and Quiz ads. 
Premiere Spotlight by Pinterest, Inc. (NYSE:PINS) allows brands to own premium ad placements to promote their products and marketing campaigns. The premiere spotlight tool allows companies to gain maximum visibility and reach a wider audience. Currently, the premiere spotlight is available in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, France, Australia, Japan, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands, Brazil and Mexico. Showcase ads are a new interactive tool allowing users to preview a brand's content simply by swiping through branded images. The new tool allows more users to explore the brand. Quiz ads allow users to personalize the shopping experience on Pinterest, Inc. (NYSE:PINS). Brands may include up to three questions per quiz as an entertaining ad tool to help more users engage with the brand.
Snapchat by Snap Inc. (NYSE:SNAP) is another popular social media platform that allows businesses to display their products and connect their page to an online store. A brand with a verified profile for businesses and a product catalog can add a shop tab to its profile. The shop tab will allow users to access the store. On October 18, Snap Inc. (NYSE:SNAP) launched new creator collaboration campaigns. The new set of tools allows businesses and content creators to directly engage or partner with the influential creator community on the app. Public creators and businesses will now be able to post their branded content as a paid promotion with a paid partnership tag. 
Social media platforms have altered the online shopping experience. With that, let's take a look at the 25 best selling items on Facebook marketplace.
25 Best Selling Items on Facebook Marketplace
Our Methodology
Finding data for the 25 best selling items on Facebook marketplace was a challenging task. With the lack of official data, we resorted to using a consensus approach to aggregate the best selling items on Facebook marketplace. We consulted 6 sources, including Dreamshala, Magecamp, Moneypantry, This Work From Home Life, Eyankimedia, and This Online World, to compile 40 best selling items on the Facebook marketplace.
To rank the 25 best selling items, we consulted TOOLXoX to extract the keyword search interest volume on Facebook for each item. The items with the highest keyword search interest volume were included in the list below. The list is in ascending order of the aforementioned metric. Due to the unavailability of official data, our ranking may not be perfect, but it is a reasonable approximation of the 25 best selling items on Facebook marketplace.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 1.27 Million
According to our methodology, clothing items and accessories rank among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace, with a keyword search interest of 1.27 million.
Instagram and Facebook by Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:META), Pinterest, Inc. (NYSE:PINS), and Snap Inc. (NYSE:SNAP) are some of the leading social commerce platforms in the world. 
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 2.62 Million
Technology gadget accessories include small devices that support tech devices such as USBs, cables, and screen cleaners to name a few.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 3.63 Million
According to our methodology, musical instruments rank among the best selling items on the Facebook marketplace, with a keyword search interest of 3.63 million.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 3.68 Million
With a keyword search interest of 3.68 million, sports equipment ranks among the best selling items on the Facebook marketplace. Sports equipment includes balls, nets, protective gear, and helmets to name a few.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 4.17 Million
According to our methodology, gym equipment ranks among the best selling items on the Facebook marketplace. Gym equipment includes different types of dumbbells, power racks, weight benches, and pull up bars to name a few.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 4.59 Million
According to our methodology, jewelry products rank among the best selling items on the Facebook marketplace with a keyword search interest of 4.59 million.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 4.68 Million
Cushions, linens, curtains, and bed lines are some examples of furniture decoration items. Furniture decoration items rank among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 4.68 Million
With a keyword search interest of 4.68 million, furniture and household items rank as the 18th best selling item on Facebook marketplace.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 4.81 Million
According to our methodology, kitchen tools or appliances rank among the best selling items on the Facebook marketplace, with a keyword search interest of 4.81 million.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 5 Million
With a keyword search interest of almost 5 million, garden furniture ranks among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace. Garden furniture may also be regarded as outdoor furniture and includes chairs, tables, benches and umbrellas to name a few.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 5.44 Million
Handmade items require skills and knowledge of making specific niche products. These may include handmade jewelry, handmade baskets, or handmade pots to name a few.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 5.44 Million
Electronic gadgets rank among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace, with a keyword search interest of almost 5.44 million. Examples of electronic gadgets include smartphones, laptops, tablets, and smartwatches to name a few.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 5.45 Million
According to our methodology, electronic accessories rank among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace. Electronic accessories include equipment that supports other electronic items such as cables and chargers.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 5.52 Million
Print on demand products may include customizable on demand prints on shirts, mugs, hoodies, pants, and posters to name a few. Print on demand products are among the best selling items on Facebook.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 5.59 Million
According to our methodology, chairs rank among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace, with a keyword search interest of 5.59 million.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 7.68 Million
According to our methodology, home decor items are among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace. Home decor items include mirrors, wall stickers, candles, vases, and frames to name a few.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 10.36 Million
With a keyword search interest of 10.36 million, vehicle accessories rank among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace. Vehicle accessories include phone mounts, chargers, emergency kits, and wireless car performance monitors to name a few.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 10.51 Million
According to our methodology, baby care products rank among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace. Baby care products include baby creams, baby powder, and baby wipes to name a few.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 10.65 Million
With a keyword search interest on Facebook of 10.65 million, garden collection products rank among the best selling items on Facebook. Garden collection products include different types of gardening tools.
Keyword Search Interest on Facebook: 10.66 Million
According to our methodology, garden flowers are among the best selling items on Facebook marketplace.
Instagram and Facebook by Meta Platforms (NASDAQ:META), Pinterest, Inc. (NYSE:PINS), and Snap Inc. (NYSE:SNAP) offer a great platform to business owners willing to sell their products to a global audience.
Click to continue reading and see 5 Best Selling Items on Facebook Marketplace.
Suggested articles:
Top 25 Countries with the Most Facebook Users
25 Countries with Most Instagram Users in 2023
20 Most Popular Business Hashtags on Instagram
Disclosure: None. 25 Best Selling Items on Facebook Marketplace is originally published on Insider Monkey.