url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/watch-nfl-thursday-night-football-210000882.html
title:How_to_watch_the_NFLs_Thursday_Night_Football_Week_9_of_the_20232024_season_live_online_for_freeand_without_cable
Both the Titans and the Steelers currently sit precariously in second place in their division (Tennessee in a two-way tie and Pittsburgh in a three-way). Whether they remain there could all come down to their quarterbacks.
The Steelers saw Kenny Pickett leave last week’s game early due to a rib injury. Pickett says he will “for sure” play in this week’s game, but fans will be on the lookout for signs of sensitivity or weakness.
The Titans, meanwhile, saw Ryan Tannehill suffer an ankle injury earlier this season, which meant rookie Will Levis was put in the driver’s seat last week. He turned in an impressive performance, with four touchdowns against the Falcons.
Will Levis continue to steal the show and add to the momentum the Titans have seen over the past few weeks? Or will experience be the critical factor this week?
Here’s a look at how to watch the matchup and what you can expect from Thursday night games tonight and moving forward.
Here’s who’s playing where and when. (The home team is listed second.)
Tennessee Titans vs Pittsburgh Steelers, 8:15 p.m. ET on Amazon Prime
Carolina Panthers vs Chicago Bears, 8:15 p.m. ET on Amazon Prime
Cincinnati Bengals vs Baltimore Ravens, 8:15 p.m. ET on Amazon Prime
San Francisco 49ers vs Seattle Seahawks, 8:20 p.m. ET on NBC
Miami Dolphins vs New York Jets, 3:00 p.m. ET on Amazon Prime
Seattle Seahawks vs Dallas Cowboys, 8:15 p.m. ET on Amazon Prime
New England Patriots vs Pittsburgh Steelers, 8:15 p.m. ET on Amazon Prime
Los Angeles Chargers vs Las Vegas Raiders, 8:15 p.m. ET on Amazon Prime
New Orleans Saints vs Los Angeles Rams, 8:15 p.m. ET on Amazon Prime
New York Jets vs Cleveland Browns, 8:15 p.m. ET on Amazon Prime
For the most part, no—though fans who live in Pittsburgh or Nashville will be the exception. Thursday night games are only viewable over the air if you’re in the broadcast zones of the two teams who are playing. If not, you’ll need an Amazon Prime account.
Nope. Amazon has exclusivity to virtually all Thursday night games. (The only exception will be on Thanksgiving.) Other streaming services can’t carry them.
Amazon is using machine learning this season to identify pivotal situations, letting fans read the play and track open receivers in real time. It will also guide viewers how fourth-down decisions are made. Meanwhile, a feature called Field Goal Target Zones overlays multiple lines on the field that show the statistical likelihoods that a kicker will make a field goal.
If you join the game in progress, a Rapid Recap feature lets you catch the action you missed before you jump into the livestream, streamlining the viewing process.
The broadcasts will also feature many of the twists from last year, including overlaying stats and game updates using its “X-Ray” technology, much like it offers information on which actors are in a scene during a film or TV show.
Al Michaels, who has called both Monday Night Football and Sunday Night Football, is in charge of Amazon’s play-by-play calls. Kirk Herbstreit takes on color commentary duties. And an alternate stream for younger audiences, with the YouTube troop Dude Perfect replacing the standard play-by-play and color commentary team, is available.
The NFL App will let you stream games that are being broadcast locally in your market as well as any played in prime time.
This story was originally featured on Fortune.com