url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/polen-capital-amzn-continues-one-172958798.html
title:Polen_Capital_AMZN_Continues_to_Be_One_of_the_Most_Competitively_Advantaged_Companies_in_the_World
Polen Capital, an investment management firm, released its "Polen Global Growth" third quarter 2023 investor letter, a copy of which can be downloaded here. Polen Capital's Global Growth Composite Portfolio, referred to as the "Portfolio," experienced a decrease of -3.19% and -3.46% gross and net of fees, which closely tracked the performance of the MSCI ACWI, known as the "Index," which declined by -3.40% over the quarter. Take a moment to review the fund's top 5 holdings to gain insights into their primary investment choices for 2023.
In its Q3 2023 investor letter, Polen Global Growth mentioned Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) and explained its insights for the company. Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) is a Seattle, Washington-based multinational technology company with a $1.4 billion market capitalization. Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) delivered a 65.00% return since the beginning of the year, while its 12-month returns are up by 52.34%. The stock closed at $138.60per share on November 3, 2023.
Here is what Polen Global Growth has to say about Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) in its Q3 2023 investor letter:
"Amazon continues to showcase it’s place as one of the most competitively advantaged companies in the world. The company has made significant progress in managing costs and better leveraging existing capacity, driving a strong recovery in its profitability. We think there’s additional room for improvement.
AWS growth seems to be stabilizing even while management continues to work with clients to optimize their infrastructure spend. Roughly 90% of global IT spending remains on premise. We believe this will eventually flip, with most IT spending ultimately moving to the cloud over time. We think AWS will be a significant beneficiary of this transition.
Further, our investment case on company profitability driven by AWS and advertising continues to unfold, delivering nearly $8 billion in free cash flow over the trailing twelve months and a net margin of 5%. We expect both to move higher with the mix shift of more profitable businesses growing fastest continuing to take effect.
At Amazon’s current price, we believe the company is well positioned to deliver a mid-teens or higher total shareholder return for our clients over the next five plus years without a Herculean effort from the business. It simply needs to continue executing on current businesses and growing into the capacity it built during and immediately after the pandemic."
Photo by Bryan Angelo on Unsplash
Our calculations show that Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) ranks 2nd on our list of the 30 Most Popular Stocks Among Hedge Funds. Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) was in 278 hedge fund portfolios at the end of the second quarter of 2023, compared to 243 funds in the previous quarter. Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) delivered a -0.69% return in the past 3 months. You can find other investor letters from hedge funds and prominent investors on our hedge fund investor letters Q3 2023 page.
Suggested Articles:
20 Easiest Dental Schools to Get Into Recently
20 Most Stolen Vehicles in the US in 2023
12 Countries with Most Prisoners Per Capita
Disclosure: None. This article is originally published at Insider Monkey.