url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/just-four-days-till-paychex-100601692.html
title:Just_Four_Days_Till_Paychex_Inc_NASDAQPAYX_Will_Be_Trading_ExDividend
Paychex, Inc. (NASDAQ:PAYX) stock is about to trade ex-dividend in 4 days. The ex-dividend date is one business day before the record date, which is the cut-off date for shareholders to be present on the company's books to be eligible for a dividend payment. The ex-dividend date is important because any transaction on a stock needs to have been settled before the record date in order to be eligible for a dividend. Meaning, you will need to purchase Paychex's shares before the 13th of November to receive the dividend, which will be paid on the 28th of November.
The company's next dividend payment will be US$0.89 per share, and in the last 12 months, the company paid a total of US$3.56 per share. Calculating the last year's worth of payments shows that Paychex has a trailing yield of 3.2% on the current share price of $112.53. If you buy this business for its dividend, you should have an idea of whether Paychex's dividend is reliable and sustainable. So we need to check whether the dividend payments are covered, and if earnings are growing.
 See our latest analysis for Paychex 
Dividends are typically paid out of company income, so if a company pays out more than it earned, its dividend is usually at a higher risk of being cut. Its dividend payout ratio is 76% of profit, which means the company is paying out a majority of its earnings. The relatively limited profit reinvestment could slow the rate of future earnings growth. We'd be worried about the risk of a drop in earnings. A useful secondary check can be to evaluate whether Paychex generated enough free cash flow to afford its dividend. Dividends consumed 66% of the company's free cash flow last year, which is within a normal range for most dividend-paying organisations.
It's positive to see that Paychex's dividend is covered by both profits and cash flow, since this is generally a sign that the dividend is sustainable, and a lower payout ratio usually suggests a greater margin of safety before the dividend gets cut.
Click here to see the company's payout ratio, plus analyst estimates of its future dividends.
Companies with consistently growing earnings per share generally make the best dividend stocks, as they usually find it easier to grow dividends per share. If business enters a downturn and the dividend is cut, the company could see its value fall precipitously. With that in mind, we're encouraged by the steady growth at Paychex, with earnings per share up 9.8% on average over the last five years. Decent historical earnings per share growth suggests Paychex has been effectively growing value for shareholders. However, it's now paying out more than half its earnings as dividends. Therefore it's unlikely that the company will be able to reinvest heavily in its business, which could presage slower growth in the future.
Many investors will assess a company's dividend performance by evaluating how much the dividend payments have changed over time. In the last 10 years, Paychex has lifted its dividend by approximately 10% a year on average. It's encouraging to see the company lifting dividends while earnings are growing, suggesting at least some corporate interest in rewarding shareholders.
Should investors buy Paychex for the upcoming dividend? Earnings per share have been growing modestly and Paychex paid out a bit over half of its earnings and free cash flow last year. All things considered, we are not particularly enthused about Paychex from a dividend perspective.
Ever wonder what the future holds for Paychex? See what the 16 analysts we track are forecasting,  with this visualisation of its historical and future estimated earnings and cash flow
Generally, we wouldn't recommend just buying the first dividend stock you see. Here's a curated list of interesting stocks that are strong dividend payers.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.
Related Quotes