url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ebay-inc-nasdaq-ebay-institutional-155927877.html
title:eBay_Incs_NASDAQEBAY_institutional_investors_lost_35_last_week_but_have_benefitted_from_longerterm_gains
Institutions' substantial holdings in eBay implies that they have significant influence over the company's share price
50% of the business is held by the top 22 shareholders
 Insiders have been selling lately 
To get a sense of who is truly in control of eBay Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY), it is important to understand the ownership structure of the business. We can see that institutions own the lion's share in the company with 90% ownership. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).
Losing money on investments is something no shareholder enjoys, least of all institutional investors who saw their holdings value drop by 3.5% last week. Still, the 12% one-year gains may have helped mitigate their overall losses. They should, however, be mindful of further losses in the future.
Let's delve deeper into each type of owner of eBay, beginning with the chart below.
 Check out our latest analysis for eBay 
Institutions typically measure themselves against a benchmark when reporting to their own investors, so they often become more enthusiastic about a stock once it's included in a major index. We would expect most companies to have some institutions on the register, especially if they are growing.
eBay already has institutions on the share registry. Indeed, they own a respectable stake in the company. This suggests some credibility amongst professional investors. But we can't rely on that fact alone since institutions make bad investments sometimes, just like everyone does. It is not uncommon to see a big share price drop if two large institutional investors try to sell out of a stock at the same time. So it is worth checking the past earnings trajectory of eBay, (below). Of course, keep in mind that there are other factors to consider, too.
Investors should note that institutions actually own more than half the company, so they can collectively wield significant power. eBay is not owned by hedge funds. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is currently the company's largest shareholder with 11% of shares outstanding. Meanwhile, the second and third largest shareholders, hold 9.3% and 4.4%, of the shares outstanding, respectively.
Looking at the shareholder registry, we can see that 50% of the ownership is controlled by the top 22 shareholders, meaning that no single shareholder has a majority interest in the ownership.
Researching institutional ownership is a good way to gauge and filter a stock's expected performance. The same can be achieved by studying analyst sentiments. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.
The definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Company management run the business, but the CEO will answer to the board, even if he or she is a member of it.
I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.
Our most recent data indicates that insiders own less than 1% of eBay Inc.. Being so large, we would not expect insiders to own a large proportion of the stock. Collectively, they own US$65m of stock. Arguably recent buying and selling is just as important to consider. You can  click here to see if insiders have been buying or selling. 
The general public, who are usually individual investors, hold a 10% stake in eBay. While this size of ownership may not be enough to sway a policy decision in their favour, they can still make a collective impact on company policies.
It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand eBay better, we need to consider many other factors. For instance, we've identified   1 warning sign for eBay  that you should be aware of.
If you would prefer discover what analysts are predicting in terms of future growth, do not miss this free report on analyst forecasts.
NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.