url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/lays-partners-vanderpump-rules-stars-151500292.html
title:LAYS_Partners_with_Vanderpump_Rules_Stars_Ariana_Madix_and_Katie_Maloney_to_Release_SandwichInspired_Chip_Flavor_at_BravoCon_2023_LAYS_Grilled_Cheese__Tomato_Soup
Fans can engage with an iconic Lay's limited edition potato chip flavor, as well as Lay's food and cocktail recipes all inspired by Bravo
PLANO, Texas, Oct. 30, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- There's no duo more iconic than Lay's potato chips and sandwiches. Now, Lay's – America's favorite potato chip brand – is bringing the best of both worlds together with the help of Bravolebrities who know a thing or two about sandwiches: "Vanderpump Rules" stars Ariana Madix and Katie Maloney. Together, they will debut a sandwich-inspired potato chip flavor – Lay's Grilled Cheese & Tomato Soup – at BravoCon 2023, the three-day fandom event of the year that celebrates all things Bravo, on National Sandwich Day.
Lay's Grilled Cheese & Tomato Soup flavored potato chips combine the goodness of grilled cheese flavor with the rich and hearty flavor of tomato soup. The flavor is making its return for a limited time in exclusive packaging inspired by Madix and Maloney's highly anticipated sandwich shop, Something About Her. Taking place this year in Las Vegas, BravoCon attendees will also get an exclusive glimpse inside the sandwich shop through a Lay's & Something About Her pop-up experience, where they'll be able to enjoy Lay's-infused food and cocktail recipes inspired by Bravo.
"We're excited to partner with these two icons to create a unique moment of connection with Lay's and bring back an iconic flavor for our fans," said Tina Mahal, senior vice president of marketing, Frito-Lay North America. "Lay's is an expert in flavor innovation we're looking forward to sharing our delicious potato chips and delicious culinary creations inspired by Ariana and Katie's new restaurant at BravoCon."
Bravoholics nationwide can get in on the fun by heading to Lay's social media pages starting November 3 to enter for a chance to win[1] a Lay's & Something About Her Sandwich Shop kit, including the limited-edition flavor and recipe cards to recreate the dishes and cocktails that will be served at the event.
Lay's at BravoCon 2023
The Lay's & Something About Her pop-up experience at BravoCon will highlight the snack brand's latest foray into culinary creations. There, Madix and Maloney will showcase Something About Her-inspired small bites and cocktails that use Lay's as the main ingredient, including:
LAY'S® "Born Cool" As a Cucumber Cup, which uses a sturdy Lay's Wavy chip as the base
LAY'S® OMGrilled Cheese and Tomato Soup, which uses toast made with Lay's and soup infused with Lay's Cheddar Sour Cream
LAY'S® Chocolate Chip-Duo Cookies, which are dusted and baked with crushed Lay's
LAY'S® Something About Sangria, which is rim dusted with crushed Lay's
LAY'S® "I Take Sandwiches Very Seriously" PB&J Martini, which is rim dusted with crushed Lay's
LAY'S ® Spice up the Drama Margarita, which is rim dusted with Lay's Kettle Cooked Jalapeno
All weekend long, there will be opportunities for fans to meet the Bravolebrities, try the limited-edition potato chip flavor, create personalized Lay's and Something About Her merch, and more.
"No one can argue that sandwiches and potato chips are a match made in heaven," said Ariana Madix. "Lay's Grilled Cheese & Tomato Soup flavored potato chips gives bold flavors with a classic chip that's just as unique as our sandwiches and as iconic as our friendship."
"I always dreamed of opening a sandwich shop, but never in my wildest dreams did I think I'd be coming out with a sandwich-inspired potato chip flavor," said Katie Maloney. "Reintroducing Lay's Grilled Cheese & Tomato Soup flavored potato chips at BravoCon is the perfect way to bring our sandwich expertise straight to fans."
About Lay'sLay's is one of the brands that makes up Frito-Lay North America, the $23 billion convenient foods division of PepsiCo, Inc. (Nasdaq: PEP), which is headquartered in Purchase, NY. Learn more about Frito-Lay at the corporate website, http://www.fritolay.com/ and on Twitter http://www.twitter.com/fritolay. Learn more about Lay's by visiting www.facebook.com/lays or on X at www.twitter.com/lays. You can also follow Lay's on Instagram by visiting http://instagram.com/lays.
About Frito-Lay North America Frito-Lay North America is the $23 billion convenient foods division of PepsiCo, Inc. (NASDAQ: PEP), which is headquartered in Purchase, NY. Frito-Lay snacks include Lay's® and Ruffles® potato chips, Doritos® and Tostitos® tortilla chips and branded dips, Cheetos® snacks, Stacy's® pita chips, PopCorners® popped-corn snack, SunChips® multigrain snacks and Fritos® corn chips. The company operates 30+ manufacturing facilities across the U.S. and Canada, more than 200 distribution centers and services 315,000 retail customers per week through its direct-store-delivery model. Learn more about Frito-Lay at the corporate website, www.fritolay.com, on X (@fritolay), on Instagram (@fritolay) and on Facebook (Frito-Lay).
About PepsiCo PepsiCo products are enjoyed by consumers more than one billion times a day in more than 200 countries and territories around the world. PepsiCo generated more than $86 billion in net revenue in 2022, driven by a complementary beverage and convenient foods portfolio that includes Lay's®, Doritos®, Cheetos®, Gatorade®, Pepsi-Cola®, Mountain Dew®, Quaker®, and SodaStream®. PepsiCo's product portfolio includes a wide range of enjoyable foods and beverages, including many iconic brands that generate more than $1 billion each in estimated annual retail sales.
Guiding PepsiCo is our vision to Be the Global Leader in Beverages and Convenient Foods by Winning with pep+ (PepsiCo Positive). pep+ is our strategic end-to-end transformation that puts sustainability and human capital at the center of how we will create value and growth by operating within planetary boundaries and inspiring positive change for planet and people. For more information, visit www.pepsico.com, and follow on X, Instagram, Facebook, and LinkedIn @PepsiCo.
About BravoBravo is the premier lifestyle and entertainment brand that drives cultural conversation around its high-quality, interactive original content across all platforms. The network features a diverse slate of original programming, including Emmy Award-winning "Top Chef" and "Project Runway," along with fan favorites "Vanderpump Rules," "Below Deck," "Southern Charm," and the highly popular "Million Dollar Listing" and "The Real Housewives" franchises. Bravo also boasts the only live late-night talk show on television with the critically acclaimed "Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen," which has become a nightly destination for A-list celebrities. Bravo is part of the NBCUniversal Television and Streaming portfolio, which includes NBCU's broadcast, cable, and streaming platforms: NBC, Bravo, E!, Oxygen, SYFY, Universal Kids, USA Network, and Peacock. For more information, visit BravoTV.com.
1 NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. A PURCHASE WILL NOT INCREASE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. Open only to legal residents of the 50 U.S. & D.C., 18 years of age and older (19+ AL and NE). Void where prohibited by law. Sweepstakes begins on or about 9:00 a.m. ET on 11/3/23 and ends at 11:59:59 p.m. ET on 11/5/23. Subject to full Official Rules, including odds and prizes. Sponsor: Frito-Lay, Inc., 7701 Legacy Drive, Plano, Texas, 75024.
View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lays-partners-with-vanderpump-rules-stars-ariana-madix-and-katie-maloney-to-release-sandwich-inspired-chip-flavor-at-bravocon-2023-lays-grilled-cheese--tomato-soup-301970682.html
SOURCE Frito-Lay North America