url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ruffles-toronto-raptors-drop-epic-140500100.html
title:Ruffles_and_the_Toronto_Raptors_drop_epic_capsule_collection_with_Canadian_streetwear_designer_celebrating_what_it_means_to_be_Cut_Different
The Cut Different™ Collection
The Cut Different™ Collection
The Cut Different™ Collection

MISSISSAUGA, Ontario, Oct. 30, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- As the OG chip with ridges, the Ruffles brand is all for celebrating what makes us unique or “Cut Different.” Now, as a new NBA season tips off, Ruffles is teaming up with the Toronto Raptors and star player, Pascal Siakam, to pay tribute to all the things that make Canadian basketball fans stand apart from the crowd. Together, the brands are proud to introduce the Cut Different™ collection, designed by Spencer Badu, an MVP of the Canadian streetwear scene. This limited-edition line of premium Ruffles X Toronto Raptors gear draws inspiration from what it means to be "Cut Different” – a tribute to the common traits that both the Ruffles and Toronto Raptors brands embody being bold, expressive, and of course, iconic.
A Ghanaian-Canadian designer with unparalleled style, Spencer Badu’s ability to stay on trend while standing out in the streetwear space made him the ultimate partner to bring this collaboration to life. Each piece of the collection demonstrates his unique flair for modernizing historical uniforms, showcasing the big wins you can accomplish when you proudly own what makes you you.
Similarly, Toronto Raptor Pascal Siakam, is always one to watch as a beloved player, an NBA Champion and two time All-Star. Not only does he stand out with his untouchable spin move, but also with his unique style that effortlessly embodies his original persona. Keep an eye on Pascal this season and you may just spot him sporting a piece from the exclusive Cut Different collection.
“The Ruffles brand is all about proudly embracing the ‘ridges’ that make you who you are,” said Jess Spaulding, Chief Marketing Officer, PepsiCo Foods Canada. “Fashion is the perfect expression of this and we're thrilled to partner with such a talented Canadian designer, Spencer Badu, to bring this collection to life.”
The collection features three original pieces, each taking inspiration from the Ruffles brand’s unique qualities and Spencer’s traditional workwear style:
Jacket: a modern look that merges an old school windbreaker with a workwear jacket, representing the shared work hard, play hard mentality of both Ruffles and Toronto Raptors fans. It’s complete with workwear-style pockets, zig-zag stitching and custom Ruffles ridge buttons that bring an elevated edge to traditional fan gear.
T-shirt: a premium-quality t-shirt featuring a deconstructed front and back and Spencer’s signature notched detailing at the neckline, this piece is a nod to the unmistakable style that has made him stand out in the streetwear scene.
Toque: a Canadian-style wool toque featuring unique triangle stitching for a cold weather look that’s effortlessly Cut Different.
Fans can visit cutdifferent.ca until 12.01.23. to enter for a chance to cop the drop. Proudly show off what makes you one-of-a-kind and share your fit check on social with hashtag #RufflesCutDifferent.
About Ruffles Ruffles is Canada’s favourite ridged potato chip brand, delivering a big crunch, iconic texture and mouth-watering taste. Under the Frito Lay Canada portfolio, Ruffles offers something for every potato chip snack fan from coast- to-coast. To learn more about the brand, visit www.ruffles.ca.
About Frito-Lay North AmericaFrito-Lay North America is the $19 billion convenient foods division of PepsiCo, Inc. (NASDAQ: PEP), which is headquartered in Purchase, NY. Frito-Lay snacks include Lay's and Ruffles potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Cheetos snacks, Tostitos tortilla chips and branded dips, SunChips multigrain snacks and Fritos corn chips. The company operates 30+ manufacturing facilities across the U.S. and Canada, more than 200 distribution centers and services 315,000 retail customers per week through its direct-store-delivery model. Learn more about Frito-Lay at the corporate website, www.fritolay.com, on Instagram (@fritolay_canada) and on Facebook (Frito-Lay Canada).
About PepsiCo Foods CanadaPepsiCo Foods Canada is comprised of the Frito Lay Canada and Quaker Canada businesses. The company employs over 6,000 Canadians with seven manufacturing plants and sales and distribution facilities from coast to coast. Frito Lay Canada is the country's largest snack food manufacturer and the company's brands include Lay's®, Doritos®, Tostitos®, Ruffles®, Smartfood® and Cheetos®. The Quaker brand portfolio includes a wide range of delicious cereals, oatmeal, rice and corn snacks and snack bars, and features other prominent brands such as Life®, Quaker Chewy®, Quaker® Harvest Crunch® and Crispy Minis®. For more information, please visit www.pepsico.ca.
Niki Javdan, Citizen Relations (niki.javdan@citizenrelations.com)
Photos accompanying this announcement are available at:
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/ffbe04a4-1f2e-4771-ac47-a1bb0c2cb374
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/54814162-3377-40ac-924a-cba9169b1c8e
https://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/c280e0b4-8028-4dc0-a2da-b7c72747cea6
