url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/total-return-nxp-semiconductors-nasdaq-114955085.html
title:The_total_return_for_NXP_Semiconductors_NASDAQNXPI_investors_has_risen_faster_than_earnings_growth_over_the_last_five_years
It hasn't been the best quarter for NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NASDAQ:NXPI) shareholders, since the share price has fallen 12% in that time. But that doesn't change the fact that shareholders have received really good returns over the last five years. It's fair to say most would be happy with 155% the gain in that time. We think it's more important to dwell on the long term returns than the short term returns. Ultimately business performance will determine whether the stock price continues the positive long term trend.
Since the long term performance has been good but there's been a recent pullback of 7.1%, let's check if the fundamentals match the share price.
 See our latest analysis for NXP Semiconductors 
There is no denying that markets are sometimes efficient, but prices do not always reflect underlying business performance. One imperfect but simple way to consider how the market perception of a company has shifted is to compare the change in the earnings per share (EPS) with the share price movement.
During the last half decade, NXP Semiconductors became profitable. That kind of transition can be an inflection point that justifies a strong share price gain, just as we have seen here.
The image below shows how EPS has tracked over time (if you click on the image you can see greater detail).
We know that NXP Semiconductors has improved its bottom line over the last three years, but what does the future have in store? This free interactive report on NXP Semiconductors' balance sheet strength is a great place to start, if you want to investigate the stock further.
It is important to consider the total shareholder return, as well as the share price return, for any given stock. The TSR is a return calculation that accounts for the value of cash dividends (assuming that any dividend received was reinvested) and the calculated value of any discounted capital raisings and spin-offs. It's fair to say that the TSR gives a more complete picture for stocks that pay a dividend. As it happens, NXP Semiconductors' TSR for the last 5 years was 175%, which exceeds the share price return mentioned earlier. The dividends paid by the company have thusly boosted the total shareholder return.
We're pleased to report that NXP Semiconductors shareholders have received a total shareholder return of 38% over one year. That's including the dividend. Since the one-year TSR is better than the five-year TSR (the latter coming in at 22% per year), it would seem that the stock's performance has improved in recent times. Someone with an optimistic perspective could view the recent improvement in TSR as indicating that the business itself is getting better with time. I find it very interesting to look at share price over the long term as a proxy for business performance. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. For instance, we've identified   3 warning signs for NXP Semiconductors  that you should be aware of.
But note: NXP Semiconductors may not be the best stock to buy. So take a peek at this free list of interesting companies with past earnings growth (and further growth forecast).
Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on American exchanges.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.