url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/despite-downward-trend-earnings-advanced-140017613.html
title:Despite_the_downward_trend_in_earnings_at_Advanced_Micro_Devices_NASDAQAMD_the_stock_hikes_17_bringing_fiveyear_gains_to_490
For many, the main point of investing in the stock market is to achieve spectacular returns. While the best companies are hard to find, but they can generate massive returns over long periods. For example, the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) share price is up a whopping 490% in the last half decade, a handsome return for long term holders. And this is just one example of the epic gains achieved by some long term investors. It's even up 17% in the last week. The company reported its financial results recently; you can catch up on the latest numbers by reading our company report.
Since the stock has added US$26b to its market cap in the past week alone, let's see if underlying performance has been driving long-term returns.
 See our latest analysis for Advanced Micro Devices 
There is no denying that markets are sometimes efficient, but prices do not always reflect underlying business performance. One imperfect but simple way to consider how the market perception of a company has shifted is to compare the change in the earnings per share (EPS) with the share price movement.
During five years of share price growth, Advanced Micro Devices actually saw its EPS drop 15% per year.
This means it's unlikely the market is judging the company based on earnings growth. Since the change in EPS doesn't seem to correlate with the change in share price, it's worth taking a look at other metrics.
On the other hand, Advanced Micro Devices' revenue is growing nicely, at a compound rate of 32% over the last five years. In that case, the company may be sacrificing current earnings per share to drive growth.
You can see below how earnings and revenue have changed over time (discover the exact values by clicking on the image).
Advanced Micro Devices is well known by investors, and plenty of clever analysts have tried to predict the future profit levels. So we recommend checking out this free report showing consensus forecasts
We're pleased to report that Advanced Micro Devices shareholders have received a total shareholder return of 78% over one year. That's better than the annualised return of 43% over half a decade, implying that the company is doing better recently. Someone with an optimistic perspective could view the recent improvement in TSR as indicating that the business itself is getting better with time. While it is well worth considering the different impacts that market conditions can have on the share price, there are other factors that are even more important. Even so, be aware that  Advanced Micro Devices is showing  3 warning signs in our investment analysis , you should know about...
If you like to buy stocks alongside management, then you might just love this free list of companies. (Hint: insiders have been buying them).
Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on American exchanges.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.