url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/analyst-forecasts-just-became-more-100133315.html
title:Analyst_Forecasts_Just_Became_More_Bearish_On_Moderna_Inc_NASDAQMRNA
The analysts covering Moderna, Inc. (NASDAQ:MRNA) delivered a dose of negativity to shareholders today, by making a substantial revision to their statutory forecasts for next year. This report focused on revenue estimates, and it looks as though the consensus view of the business has become substantially more conservative.
Following the latest downgrade, the 22 analysts covering Moderna provided consensus estimates of US$5.0b revenue in 2024, which would reflect a stressful 45% decline on its sales over the past 12 months. The loss per share is anticipated to greatly reduce in the near future, narrowing 40% to US$5.44. Yet before this consensus update, the analysts had been forecasting revenues of US$6.0b and losses of US$5.44 per share in 2024. So there's definitely been a change in sentiment in this update, with the analysts administering a substantial haircut to next year's revenue estimates, while at the same time holding losses per share steady.
 See our latest analysis for Moderna 
the analysts have cut their price target 11% to US$155 per share, signalling that the declining revenue and ongoing losses are contributing to the lower valuation.
Of course, another way to look at these forecasts is to place them into context against the industry itself. These estimates imply that sales are expected to slow, with a forecast annualised revenue decline of 38% by the end of 2024. This indicates a significant reduction from annual growth of 57% over the last five years. Compare this with our data, which suggests that other companies in the same industry are, in aggregate, expected to see their revenue grow 15% per year. It's pretty clear that Moderna's revenues are expected to perform substantially worse than the wider industry.
Regrettably, they also downgraded their revenue estimates, and the latest forecasts imply the business will grow sales slower than the wider market. Furthermore, there was a cut to the price target, suggesting that the latest news has led to more pessimism about the intrinsic value of the business. Often, one downgrade can set off a daisy-chain of cuts, especially if an industry is in decline. So we wouldn't be surprised if the market became a lot more cautious on Moderna after today.
Still, the long-term prospects of the business are much more relevant than next year's earnings. At Simply Wall St, we have a full range of analyst estimates for Moderna going out to 2025, and you can see them free on our platform here.
Another way to search for interesting companies that could be  reaching an inflection point is to track whether management are buying or selling, with our free list of growing companies that insiders are buying.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.