url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/moderna-present-upcoming-conferences-november-211500903.html
title:Moderna_to_Present_at_Upcoming_Conferences_in_November_2023
CAMBRIDGE, MA / ACCESSWIRE / November 8, 2023 / Moderna, Inc. (Nasdaq:MRNA), today announced its participation in the following upcoming investor conferences:
2023 UBS Global Biopharma Conference on November 9th at 8:00 a.m. ET.
2023 Jefferies London Healthcare Conference on November 16th at 8:30 a.m. GMT.
35th Annual Piper Sandler Healthcare Conference on November 30th at 12:30 p.m. ET.
A live webcast of each presentation will be available under "Events and Presentations" in the Investors section of the Moderna website at investors.modernatx.com. A replay of each webcast will be archived on Moderna's website for at least 30 days following the presentation.
About ModernaIn over 10 years since its inception, Moderna has transformed from a research-stage company advancing programs in the field of messenger RNA (mRNA), to an enterprise with a diverse clinical portfolio of vaccines and therapeutics across seven modalities, a broad intellectual property portfolio and integrated manufacturing facilities that allow for rapid clinical and commercial production at scale. Moderna maintains alliances with a broad range of domestic and overseas government and commercial collaborators, which has allowed for the pursuit of both groundbreaking science and rapid scaling of manufacturing. Most recently, Moderna's capabilities have come together to allow the authorized use and approval of one of the earliest and most effective vaccines against the COVID-19 pandemic.
Moderna's mRNA platform builds on continuous advances in basic and applied mRNA science, delivery technology and manufacturing, and has allowed the development of therapeutics and vaccines for infectious diseases, immuno-oncology, rare diseases, cardiovascular diseases and auto-immune diseases. Moderna has been named a top biopharmaceutical employer by Science for the past nine years. To learn more, visit www.modernatx.com.
Investors:Lavina TalukdarSenior Vice President & Head of Investor Relations617-209-5834Lavina.Talukdar@modernatx.com
SOURCE: Moderna, Inc.
View source version on accesswire.com: https://www.accesswire.com/801315/moderna-to-present-at-upcoming-conferences-in-november-2023
Related Quotes