url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-29-return-capital-fortinet-130047664.html
title:Why_The_29_Return_On_Capital_At_Fortinet_NASDAQFTNT_Should_Have_Your_Attention
If you're not sure where to start when looking for the next multi-bagger, there are a few key trends you should keep an eye out for. Firstly, we'll want to see a proven return on capital employed (ROCE) that is increasing, and secondly, an expanding base of capital employed. Put simply, these types of businesses are compounding machines, meaning they are continually reinvesting their earnings at ever-higher rates of return. So when we looked at the ROCE trend of Fortinet (NASDAQ:FTNT) we really liked what we saw.
For those who don't know, ROCE is a measure of a company's yearly pre-tax profit (its return), relative to the capital employed in the business. To calculate this metric for Fortinet, this is the formula:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) รท (Total Assets - Current Liabilities)
0.29 = US$1.2b รท (US$7.5b - US$3.5b) (Based on the trailing twelve months to June 2023).
Therefore, Fortinet has an ROCE of 29%. In absolute terms that's a great return and it's even better than the Software industry average of 8.5%.
 Check out our latest analysis for Fortinet 
Above you can see how the current ROCE for Fortinet compares to its prior returns on capital, but there's only so much you can tell from the past. If you're interested, you can view the analysts predictions in our free report on analyst forecasts for the company.
We like the trends that we're seeing from Fortinet. The data shows that returns on capital have increased substantially over the last five years to 29%. The amount of capital employed has increased too, by 167%. So we're very much inspired by what we're seeing at Fortinet thanks to its ability to profitably reinvest capital.
On a separate but related note, it's important to know that Fortinet has a current liabilities to total assets ratio of 47%, which we'd consider pretty high. This can bring about some risks because the company is basically operating with a rather large reliance on its suppliers or other sorts of short-term creditors. While it's not necessarily a bad thing, it can be beneficial if this ratio is lower.
All in all, it's terrific to see that Fortinet is reaping the rewards from prior investments and is growing its capital base. And a remarkable 268% total return over the last five years tells us that investors are expecting more good things to come in the future. With that being said, we still think the promising fundamentals mean the company deserves some further due diligence.
While Fortinet looks impressive, no company is worth an infinite price. The  intrinsic value infographic in our free research report  helps visualize whether FTNT is currently trading for a fair price.
If you'd like to see other companies earning high returns, check out our free list of companies earning high returns with solid balance sheets here.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.