url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/fiserv-tops-military-times-best-133000551.html
title:Fiserv_Tops_Military_Times_Best_for_Vets_Survey_and_Ranks_Among_Forbes_Americas_Best_Employers_for_Veterans
Recognitions underscore company’s ongoing commitment to the military community
BROOKFIELD, Wis., November 08, 2023--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Fiserv, Inc. (NYSE: FI), a leading global provider of payments and financial services technology solutions, has received dual recognitions for its ongoing commitment to provide career opportunities to U.S. military veterans. Fiserv received the top place in the Military Times Best for Vets: Employers Survey for 2023, and was named one of Forbes America’s Best Employers for Veterans for the third consecutive year.
"Our colleagues who have served our country in uniform bring unique skill sets to Fiserv, and possess capabilities such as critical thinking, time management and teamwork that strengthen our company and enable our clients’ success," said Vivian Greentree, senior vice president and Head of Global Corporate Citizenship at Fiserv and a U.S. Navy Veteran. "We are proud to support the military community, and this double distinction underscores our commitment to veterans, demonstrated through our dedicated support of programs that advance their lives and careers."
Through a U.S. military and veterans engagement strategy called Fiserv Salutes, Fiserv provides the military community with career opportunities, educational resources and business solutions for military-owned businesses. Across Fiserv, current and former military members hold roles that are critical to the organization. The Military Leadership Council Employee Resource Group recognizes, connects and supports veterans, active service members, members of the guard, reservists, former and current military spouses, and their allies. Fiserv also partners with military service organizations, local chambers of commerce, universities, and others in order to provide best-in-class programs for the military community.
Military Times Best for Vets: Employers rankings are based on the results of a voluntary survey that asks companies about their policies, practices and benefits for veterans and their families. The editorially driven Best for Vets program produces a highly respected analysis of a company’s efforts to recruit, retain, and support current and former service members, military spouses, and military caregivers.
In order to determine America’s Best Employers for Veterans, Forbes and Statista surveyed nearly 8,500 U.S. veterans working for companies employing at least 1,000 people within the United States. The evaluation was based on direct recommendations, with veterans asked to give their opinion on general topics regarding their own employer such as atmosphere and development, image, working conditions, salary and wage, workplace, and diversity, as well as a set of topics related specifically to the interests of veterans in the workplace. Participants were also given the chance to evaluate other employers in their respective industries that stand out either positively or negatively.
In a world that is moving faster than ever before, Fiserv helps clients deliver solutions in step with the way people live and work today – financial services at the speed of life. Learn more at fiserv.com.
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NYSE: FI), a Fortune 500 company, aspires to move money and information in a way that moves the world. As a global leader in payments and financial technology, the company helps clients achieve best-in-class results through a commitment to innovation and excellence in areas including account processing and digital banking solutions; card issuer processing and network services; payments; e-commerce; merchant acquiring and processing; and the Clover® cloud-based point-of-sale and business management platform. Fiserv is a member of the S&P 500® Index and one of Fortune® World’s Most Admired Companies™. Visit fiserv.com and follow on social media for more information and the latest company news.
FISV-G
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231108169516/en/
Contacts
Media Relations: Mark D. JelfsSenior Manager, External CommunicationsFiserv, Inc.262-737-8244mark.jelfs@fiserv.com
Additional Contact: Ann S. CaveVice President, External CommunicationsFiserv, Inc.678-325-9435ann.cave@fiserv.com
Related Quotes