url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/institutional-investors-micron-technology-inc-120024960.html
title:Institutional_investors_are_Micron_Technology_Incs_NASDAQMU_biggest_bettors_and_were_rewarded_after_last_weeks_US71b_market_cap_gain
Significantly high institutional ownership implies Micron Technology's stock price is sensitive to their trading actions
The top 23 shareholders own 51% of the company
 Insiders have sold recently 
A look at the shareholders of Micron Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ:MU) can tell us which group is most powerful. With 82% stake, institutions possess the maximum shares in the company. Put another way, the group faces the maximum upside potential (or downside risk).
And last week, institutional investors ended up benefitting the most after the company hit US$80b in market cap. One-year return to shareholders is currently 29% and last week’s gain was the icing on the cake.
In the chart below, we zoom in on the different ownership groups of Micron Technology.
 See our latest analysis for Micron Technology 
Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.
We can see that Micron Technology does have institutional investors; and they hold a good portion of the company's stock. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. It is not uncommon to see a big share price drop if two large institutional investors try to sell out of a stock at the same time. So it is worth checking the past earnings trajectory of Micron Technology, (below). Of course, keep in mind that there are other factors to consider, too.
Institutional investors own over 50% of the company, so together than can probably strongly influence board decisions. We note that hedge funds don't have a meaningful investment in Micron Technology. The Vanguard Group, Inc. is currently the company's largest shareholder with 8.6% of shares outstanding. Meanwhile, the second and third largest shareholders, hold 8.2% and 7.9%, of the shares outstanding, respectively.
Looking at the shareholder registry, we can see that 51% of the ownership is controlled by the top 23 shareholders, meaning that no single shareholder has a majority interest in the ownership.
While it makes sense to study institutional ownership data for a company, it also makes sense to study analyst sentiments to know which way the wind is blowing. There are a reasonable number of analysts covering the stock, so it might be useful to find out their aggregate view on the future.
While the precise definition of an insider can be subjective, almost everyone considers board members to be insiders. Company management run the business, but the CEO will answer to the board, even if he or she is a member of it.
Insider ownership is positive when it signals leadership are thinking like the true owners of the company. However, high insider ownership can also give immense power to a small group within the company. This can be negative in some circumstances.
Our information suggests that Micron Technology, Inc. insiders own under 1% of the company. As it is a large company, we'd only expect insiders to own a small percentage of it. But it's worth noting that they own US$228m worth of shares. In this sort of situation, it can be more interesting to  see if those insiders have been buying or selling. 
With a 17% ownership, the general public, mostly comprising of individual investors, have some degree of sway over Micron Technology. While this group can't necessarily call the shots, it can certainly have a real influence on how the company is run.
It's always worth thinking about the different groups who own shares in a company. But to understand Micron Technology better, we need to consider many other factors. To that end, you should be aware of the   1 warning sign  we've spotted with Micron Technology .
If you are like me, you may want to think about whether this company will grow or shrink. Luckily, you can check this free report showing analyst forecasts for its future.
NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.