url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/us-chip-maker-micron-rekindles-093000675.html
title:US_chip_maker_Micron_rekindles_ties_with_China_despite_Beijings_sales_ban_over_security_concerns
Micron Technology, the first American semiconductor company targeted by Beijing with a partial sales ban in the country, is trying to rekindle its relationship with China, with company president and CEO Sanjay Mehrotra increasing investments in the world's second largest economy.
According to a brief statement from China's Ministry of Commerce on Friday, Mehrotra met with commerce minister Wang Wentao in Beijing on Wednesday. Wang said China welcomes Micron to grow its business "under the precondition of following Chinese laws and regulations", while Mehrotra "expressed willingness to expand investments in China".
The meeting came weeks after the US memory chip maker said it would attend the 6th China International Import Expo in Shanghai next week, hosted by the Chinese government to woo foreign traders and investors. It would be Micron's first participation at the annual event.
Do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world? Get the answers with SCMP Knowledge, our new platform of curated content with explainers, FAQs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team.
The improved ties between Micron and China come at a time when Beijing and Washington are endeavouring to ease tensions ahead of a planned meeting between Chinese President Xi Jinping and US President Joe Biden in San Francisco later this month.
Meanwhile, China is also trying to show a friendly face to US businesses. Wang said China will further improve its investment environment and improve its service to foreign investors, and that China welcomes Micron to "put roots down" in China, according to the statement.
It is not known if Mehrotra met with Chinese cyberspace administration officials while in Beijing. Micron China said in a statement on Friday that Mehrotra discussed Micron's China business plans with Wang, as well as its investment plans for the Xi'an plant.
A smartphone with a displayed Micron logo is placed on a computer motherboard in this illustration taken March 6, 2023. Photo: Reuters
Mehrotra also visited China in July and met with Ministry of Commerce officials, according to the local media National Business Daily.
In a LinkedIn post published following that visit, Mehrotra wrote that Micron's China operations, comprising 3,000 employees in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Xi'an, were "an integral part of our global business", showcasing the importance of China as one of its key markets.
This article originally appeared in the South China Morning Post (SCMP), the most authoritative voice reporting on China and Asia for more than a century. For more SCMP stories, please explore the SCMP app or visit the SCMP's Facebook and Twitter pages. Copyright © 2023 South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2023. South China Morning Post Publishers Ltd. All rights reserved.