url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/csx-brs-reach-second-agreement-194500554.html
title:CSX_and_BRS_Reach_Second_Agreement_on_Paid_Sick_Leave
JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Oct. 25, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- CSX Corp. (NASDAQ: CSX) is announcing the ratification of a paid sick leave agreement covering approximately 200 employees represented by the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen (BRS) on the company’s L&N property.
The ratification follows another recent agreement with the BRS covering nearly 400 employees on the SCL property. Both agreements provide a sick leave package that ensures employees can take necessary time off from work to recover from illness without worrying about their financial stability.
CSX continues to build on series of successful negotiations with various railroad unions to provide paid sick leave. This includes agreements reached earlier this year with the BMWED, BRC, SMART-TD, IAM, NCFO and IBEW unions, providing paid sick leave for thousands of railroad workers.
CSX President and CEO Joe Hinrichs said, “We greatly value our employees represented by the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen for their contributions to running a safe, reliable railroad. We’re committed to improving the employee experience at CSX, and paid sick leave is one way we’re continuing to create a work environment that prioritizes employee welfare.”
L&N General Chairman Andy Webb said, “We’re glad to see continued progress as more of our hard-working members obtain the paid sick leave benefits that BRS has pursued since the conclusion of national agreements in December 2022.”
The ratification of the L&N agreement reinforces CSX’s position as an employer of choice in the rail industry, as the company continues to collaborate with its union partners on initiatives that ensure CSX team members have the support they need.
About CSX
CSX, based in Jacksonville, Florida, is a premier transportation company. It provides rail, intermodal and rail-to-truck transload services and solutions to customers across a broad array of markets, including energy, industrial, construction, agricultural and consumer products. For nearly 200 years, CSX has played a critical role in the nation’s economic expansion and industrial development. Its network connects every major metropolitan area in the eastern United States, where nearly two-thirds of the nation’s population resides. It also links more than 240 short-line railroads and more than 70 ocean, river and lake ports with major population centers and farming towns alike. More information about CSX Corporation and its subsidiaries is available at www.csx.com.
Contact: Matthew Korn, CFA, Investor Relations904-366-4515
Bryan Tucker, Corporate Communications 855-955-6397
