url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/csx-nasdaq-csx-more-multiply-140027116.html
title:CSX_NASDAQCSX_Has_More_To_Do_To_Multiply_In_Value_Going_Forward
If you're looking for a multi-bagger, there's a few things to keep an eye out for. Ideally, a business will show two trends; firstly a growing return on capital employed (ROCE) and secondly, an increasing amount of capital employed. This shows us that it's a compounding machine, able to continually reinvest its earnings back into the business and generate higher returns. Although, when we looked at CSX (NASDAQ:CSX), it didn't seem to tick all of these boxes.
Just to clarify if you're unsure, ROCE is a metric for evaluating how much pre-tax income (in percentage terms) a company earns on the capital invested in its business. Analysts use this formula to calculate it for CSX:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) รท (Total Assets - Current Liabilities)
0.15 = US$5.7b รท (US$42b - US$2.9b) (Based on the trailing twelve months to September 2023).
Therefore, CSX has an ROCE of 15%. On its own, that's a standard return, however it's much better than the 9.2% generated by the Transportation industry.
 Check out our latest analysis for CSX 
Above you can see how the current ROCE for CSX compares to its prior returns on capital, but there's only so much you can tell from the past. If you'd like to see what analysts are forecasting going forward, you should check out our free report for CSX.
Things have been pretty stable at CSX, with its capital employed and returns on that capital staying somewhat the same for the last five years. This tells us the company isn't reinvesting in itself, so it's plausible that it's past the growth phase. So don't be surprised if CSX doesn't end up being a multi-bagger in a few years time.
In summary, CSX isn't compounding its earnings but is generating stable returns on the same amount of capital employed. And with the stock having returned a mere 40% in the last five years to shareholders, you could argue that they're aware of these lackluster trends. Therefore, if you're looking for a multi-bagger, we'd propose looking at other options.
CSX does have some risks though, and we've spotted   1 warning sign for CSX  that you might be interested in.
While CSX isn't earning the highest return, check out this free list of companies that are earning high returns on equity with solid balance sheets.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.