url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ea-sports-ufc-5-launches-160500231.html
title:EA_SPORTS_UFC_5_Launches_Worldwide__A_New_Era_of_Mixed_Martial_Arts_Enters_the_Octagon
Powered by Frostbite, New Real Impact System Transforms the UFC Experience with Intensity, Realism and Authentic Damage
REDWOOD CITY, Calif., October 27, 2023--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: EA) and UFC®, the world’s premier mixed martial arts organization and part of TKO Group Holdings (NYSE: TKO), today released EA SPORTS™ UFC® 5 worldwide on PlayStation®5 and Xbox Series X|S. Debuting on the Frostbite™ Engine for the first time in franchise history, the game features meticulously detailed fighter likenesses and seamless 60 frames-per-second performance.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231027439447/en/
EA SPORTS UFC 5 Deluxe Edition Cover Star Israel Adesanya. (Photo: Business Wire)
Damage in UFC 5 is depicted in visceral detail with true-to-sport accuracy. More than 64,000 possible facial damage combinations, new fluid physics, and blood and sweat particle systems alter a fighter’s appearance throughout the fight. With the Real Impact System’s Authentic Damage feature, causing a cut to an opponent’s eye will diminish their striking and blocking accuracy due to compromised vision, and triggering a low calf injury will impede mobility. In UFC 5 players enter the world-famous Octagon® with added strategic depth and mixed-martial-arts (MMA) realism.
"UFC 5 has the most advanced features that we’ve ever seen in a combat sports title, and EA has taken every aspect of this game to the next level," said UFC SVP of Global Consumer Products Tracey Bleczinski. "With every new iteration of the EA SPORTS UFC franchise, our goal is to create a fun and entertaining game that offers greater realism and a deeper, more engaging UFC experience. EA SPORTS has once again set the standard for combat sports games and delivered a knockout with UFC 5, the best version of the game to date."
"The energy from our passionate fans and our collaboration with UFC helped us achieve generation-advancing MMA gameplay," said Nate McDonald, Lead Producer of UFC 5. "Frostbite and the Real Impact System are game changers, and when combined with the debuts of Cinematic K.O. Replay, Seamless Submissions, and a real-world powered Fight Week experience, UFC 5 is as real as it gets."
For a deeper look at UFC 5’s full suite of new gameplay mechanics, players can watch the 21-minute Gameplay Deep Dive here.
UFC 5 is loaded with features including:
Cinematic K.O. Replay: Fight-ending finishes are showcased with intense, true-to-sport visuals and enhanced excitement. Presented in super slow motion with cinematic angles and lighting, the impact of highlighting real moments recaptures UFC drama. This is just one of the many exciting additions to UFC 5’s vast presentation features. Watch the official 12-minute Presentation Deep-Dive trailer for more here.
Seamless Submissions: The premier of the Seamless Submissions mechanic evolves the grappling system with quicker transitions and no mini games to maximize gameplay fluidity. Grapple Assist helps beginners while veterans delve into its depths. Seamless Submissions ensure a smoother, more authentic ground experience for grappling fans.
Fight Week: UFC 5 will showcase an updated live service closely connected to the ongoing ebb and flow of the sport’s storylines, introducing features such as Fight Week and Fight Picks linked to real-life UFC events.
Online Career Mode: Online Career includes skill-based matchmaking, division progression, and title chases across four divisions. Players can compete with a different Created Fighter in each division, allowing players to showcase multiple character customizations and Vanity Items. Watch the 10-minute Game Modes Deep Dive trailer here.
Doctor’s Checks and Stoppages: A significant injury can cause the referee to halt the fight for a doctor's review. Failing to shield the damage can result in a doctor's stoppage, adding authentic strategic challenges for players under increased pressure.
New Strikes and Hit Reactions: New strike animations mimic professional heavy hitters and kickboxers, incorporating varied ground-and-pound elbows, spinning moves, body punches, and calf kicks. Additionally, the hit reaction animations and impact physics enhance player immersion.
Alter Egos: Alter Egos presents fresh versions of top fighters, showcasing pivotal career moments, unique appearances, and related skills.
EA Play** members on Xbox and PlayStation can try UFC 5 for up to 10 hours.
Developed by EA Vancouver, UFC 5 is rated ESRB M (Mature) and PEGI 16, and is now available on PlayStation®5 and Xbox Series X|S. Please visit https://www.ea.com/games/ufc/ufc-5 for more information.
Please subscribe to the EA SPORTS UFC YouTube channel for all trailers and videos, join the EA SPORTS UFC community on Twitter, Instagram and TikTok, or visit the official website at http://x.ea.com/ufc5/home to stay up to date on the latest news.
PRESS ASSETS ARE AVAILABLE AT EAPressPortal.com
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: EA) is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. The Company develops and delivers games, content and online services for Internet-connected consoles, mobile devices and personal computers.
In fiscal year 2023, EA posted GAAP net revenue of approximately $7.4 billion. Headquartered in Redwood City, California, EA is recognized for a portfolio of critically acclaimed, high-quality brands such as EA SPORTS FC™, Battlefield™, Apex Legends™, The Sims™, Madden NFL, Need for Speed™, Titanfall™, Plants vs. Zombies™ and F1®. More information about EA is available at www.ea.com/news.
EA, EA SPORTS, EA SPORTS FC, Battlefield, Need for Speed, Apex Legends, The Sims, Titanfall and Plants vs. Zombies are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. John Madden, NFL, and F1 are the property of their respective owners and used with permission.
About UFC
UFC® is the world’s premier mixed martial arts organization (MMA), with more than 700 million fans and 243 million social media followers. The organization produces more than 40 live events annually in some of the most prestigious arenas around the world while broadcasting to over 900 million TV households across more than 170 countries. UFC’s athlete roster features the world’s best MMA athletes representing more than 80 countries. The organization’s digital offerings include UFC FIGHT PASS®, one of the world’s leading streaming services for combat sports. UFC is part of TKO Group Holdings (NYSE: TKO) and is headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada. For more information, visit UFC.com and follow UFC at Facebook.com/UFC and @UFC on X, Snapchat, Instagram, and TikTok: @UFC.
*Conditions & restrictions apply. See https://www.ea.com/games/ufc/ufc-5/offer-disclaimers for details.**Conditions, limitations and exclusions apply. See tos.ea.com/legalapp/eaplay/US/en/PC/ for details.
Category: EA Sports
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231027439447/en/
Contacts
Travis VarnerSr. Communications Manager650-628-2717tvarner@ea.com
Brian SmithSr. Director Corporate Communications702-956-6566bsmith@ufc.com