url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/heres-electronic-arts-nasdaq-ea-115853315.html
title:Heres_What_To_Make_Of_Electronic_Arts_NASDAQEA_Decelerating_Rates_Of_Return
What trends should we look for it we want to identify stocks that can multiply in value over the long term? Firstly, we'd want to identify a growing return on capital employed (ROCE) and then alongside that, an ever-increasing base of capital employed. Basically this means that a company has profitable initiatives that it can continue to reinvest in, which is a trait of a compounding machine. So, when we ran our eye over Electronic Arts' (NASDAQ:EA) trend of ROCE, we liked what we saw.
Just to clarify if you're unsure, ROCE is a metric for evaluating how much pre-tax income (in percentage terms) a company earns on the capital invested in its business. The formula for this calculation on Electronic Arts is:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) รท (Total Assets - Current Liabilities)
0.15 = US$1.6b รท (US$13b - US$2.8b) (Based on the trailing twelve months to June 2023).
So, Electronic Arts has an ROCE of 15%.  On its own, that's a standard return, however it's much better than the 11% generated by the Entertainment industry.
 See our latest analysis for Electronic Arts 
In the above chart we have measured Electronic Arts' prior ROCE against its prior performance, but the future is arguably more important. If you're interested, you can view the analysts predictions in our free report on analyst forecasts for the company.
The trend of ROCE doesn't stand out much, but returns on a whole are decent. The company has consistently earned 15% for the last five years, and the capital employed within the business has risen 52% in that time. Since 15% is a moderate ROCE though, it's good to see a business can continue to reinvest at these decent rates of return. Over long periods of time, returns like these might not be too exciting, but with consistency they can pay off in terms of share price returns.
In the end, Electronic Arts has proven its ability to adequately reinvest capital at good rates of return. In light of this, the stock has only gained 36% over the last five years for shareholders who have owned the stock in this period. So to determine if Electronic Arts is a multi-bagger going forward, we'd suggest digging deeper into the company's other fundamentals.
While Electronic Arts doesn't shine too bright in this respect, it's still worth seeing if the company is trading at attractive prices. You can find that out with our  FREE intrinsic value estimation  on our platform.
While Electronic Arts isn't earning the highest return, check out this free list of companies that are earning high returns on equity with solid balance sheets.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.