url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/top-20-most-valuable-esports-141434303.html
title:Top_20_Most_Valuable_Esports_Companies
In this article, we will be looking at the top 20 most valuable esports companies. If you want to skip our detailed analysis of the global esports market, you can go directly to Top 5 Most Valuable Esports Companies.
The global esports industry is a rapidly growing industry, driven by a passionate fan base of millions of people around the world. The global esports industry is worth billions of dollars, and is a major driver of economic growth.
In one of our recent articles about android games with the best storylines, we looked at some emerging trends in the mobile gaming market and discussed that the market is expected to grow and expand in the years to come.
As the mobile gaming market continues to enlarge, and esports become increasingly popular and accessible, the global esports market is poised for growth in the coming years. According to a report by Research and Markets, the global esports market’s value was estimated to be $2.56 billion in 2022. Looking forward, the market is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 21.9% during 2023-2030, propelling the market to reach above $12.49 billion by the end of the forecast period. The combination of entertainment and gaming is positively influencing the esports industry. Significant audience growth and increased investments from commercial partners is fueling growth in the esports market. Sponsorships, ticket sales and merchandise are quickly becoming some of the biggest revenue segments that are driving growth in the esports market. Moreover, the industry is becoming more organized, with esports platforms and organizations developing new competitive structures.
On October 23, Reuters reported that Saudi Arabia announced the launch of an annual Esports World Cup. The competition will feature the most popular esports games and a record-breaking prize pool. According to the Saudi Crown Prince, Mohammed bin Salman, the Esports World Cup will be held annually in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia’s capital city and main financial hub.
The esports market is a competitive market. Some of the most notable names in the esports industry include Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ:EA), Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. (NASDAQ:TTWO), and Roblox Corporation (NYSE:RBLX).
Roblox Corporation (NYSE:RBLX) is an American video game company, best known as the developer of Roblox. Roblox aims to revolutionize the way people come together to create, play, explore, learn, and connect with one another. On September 8, CNBC reported that Roblox is looking to increase its revenue by allowing more users to create and sell more types of digital goods. Subscribers to the Roblox app’s upper-tier premium plans, which give gamers a monthly allowance of the Robux digital currency, will be able to create and sell 3D goods to other users. Roblox Corporation (NYSE:RBLX) primarily generates revenue from the sales of its digital currency, Robux, which users use to buy virtual items within games. By allowing gamers to create and sell 3D goods, Roblox Corporation (NYSE:RBLX) could increase their revenue by attracting more subscribers who are willing to spend money for the new feature.
Based in the US, Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. (NASDAQ:TTWO) is a video game holding company that owns two major publishing labels, Rockstar Games and 2K. On September 8, Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. (NASDAQ:TTWO) reported that 2K has released NBA 2K24, the latest edition in its top-rated NBA video game series. The game is now available worldwide with the introduction of immersive ProPLAY technology and cross-play functionality for next-generation consoles. With innovative updates, NBA 2K24 will offer players the chance to experience the past, present, and future of basketball culture.
On September 29, Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ:EA) announced the worldwide launch of EA SPORTS FC 24. According to the announcement, which marks the beginning of a new era in football, the EA SPORTS FC 24 is powered by a trinity of new technologies while also allowing gamers to play across platforms. EA FC will be reaching football fans through console, mobile, online as well as esports products and with all the new features, the new football game will create an authentic, true to football experience.
Here are some comments from Electronic Arts Inc.’s (NASDAQ:EA) Q2 2024 earnings call:
“The successful launch of EA SPORTS FC represents a profound achievement. We have reimagined and expanded one of the largest franchises in the world, setting new standards of authenticity, innovation, and social interaction.
This cutting-edge, multi-experience ecosystem spans console, PC, mobile, and free to play, with a ground-breaking game in FC 24; advancements of FC Mobile and FC Online in Asia; and a new global esports program in FC Pro. Fans, across geographies and generations, are playing, connecting and celebrating in and around these incredible, immersive experiences. Coming off a record-setting FIFA 23 performance amidst two World Cups, FC is set to deliver growth this year and beyond. Fan reception of FC has been extraordinary, expanding our already thriving global football community. Within the first four weeks after world-wide launch, over 14.5 million fans have played FC 24 on console and premium PC, including double-digit growth in new players. FC Mobile has established new franchise records, with over 2 million people installing the game on the first day, over 5 million in the first three days, and over 11 million in the first 10 days.”
On November 1, Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ:EA) reported strong earnings for the fiscal second quarter of 2024. The company reported earnings per share (EPS) of $1.83, surpassing EPS estimates by $0.57. The company reported a revenue of $1.82 billion and outperformed revenue estimates by $51.06 million.
Now that we have discussed some of the latest trends in the global esports market, let’s take a look at the top 20 most valuable esports companies.
Photo by Alex Haney on Unsplash
Methodology
In this article, we have listed the top 20 most valuable esports companies. To compile a list of the most valuable esports companies, we sifted through various sources including industry reports and consulted the Yahoo Finance and FINVIZ stock screeners, to find the most prominent esports and gaming companies.
However, our list of top 20 most valuable esports companies includes both companies that primarily focus on gaming and esports as well as diverse companies with a presence in the gaming and esports industry. For companies that focus primarily on gaming and esports, we used the market capitalization as a metric to quantify value, as of November 1, 2023. For diverse companies with a gaming and/or esports segment, we ranked them according to the 2022 annual revenue of their gaming and/or esports segments.
Finally, we have ranked the top 20 most valuable esports companies in the world in ascending order based on their market capitalization or annual revenue from the gaming and esports segment.
Market Capitalization: $3.62billion
First up on our list of top 20 most valuable esports companies is Ncsoft Corporation (KRX:036570). It is a South Korean video game developing and publishing company which is best known for the distribution of massively multiplayer online role-playing games including Guild Wars and Lineage. As a major gaming and esports company, Ncsoft Corporation (KRX:036570) has a market capitalization of $3.62 billion as of November 1, 2023.
Market Capitalization: $3.77 billion
Ubisoft Entertainment SA (EPA:UBI) is a French video game with a market capitalization of $3.77 billion as of November 1, 2023. The company’s most famous video game franchises include Far Cry, Prince of Persia, Tom Clancy’s, Watch Dogs, and Assassin's Creed. Published by Ubisoft Entertainment SA (EPA:UBI), Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege is a prominent name in esports.
Annual Revenue from Gaming Business: $3.87 Billion
Headquartered in Singapore, Sea Limited (NYSE:SE) is a tech conglomerate that was initially founded as Garena, which is now a game development and publishing company famous for its Free Fire title. Garena, owned by Sea Limited (NYSE:SE), has become a leading esports organizer that hosts esports tournaments around the world. The company generated an annual revenue of $3.87 billion from its digital entertainment business which includes Garena and esports.
Market Capitalization: $3.96 billion
Square Enix Holdings Co. Ltd. (TYO:9684) is a Japanese multinational video game publisher and entertainment conglomerate. With a market capitalization of $3.96 billion as of November 1, 2023, it ranks among the top 20 most valuable esports companies. Square Enix Holdings Co. Ltd. (TYO:9684) has released numerous renowned role-playing game franchises, such as Kingdom Hearts, Dragon Quest, and Final Fantasy.
Market Capitalization: $4.12 billion
Koei Tecmo Holdings Co. Ltd. (TYO:3635) is a Japanese video game and holding company. The company is best known for their Dynasty Warriors, Atelier, Ninja Gaiden, Fatal Frame, and Dead or Alive franchises. As of November 1, 2023, Koei Tecmo Holdings Co. Ltd. (TYO:3635) has a market capitalization of $4.12 billion.
Market Capitalization: $4.15 billion
GameStop Corp. (NYSE:GME) is a US-based video game, consumer electronics, and gaming merchandise retailer. The company has developed an educational esports series of gaming clinics and tournaments. It also collaborates with professional esports teams such as Complexity Gaming, Envy Gaming and Infinite Esports. With a market cap of $4.15 billion as of November 1, 2023, GameStop Corp. (NYSE:GME) ranks among the top 15 most valuable esports companies.
Market Capitalization: $5.43 billion
Bilibili Inc. (NASDAQ:BILI) is a video sharing platform based in Shanghai, China. Users can submit, view, and add commentary on gaming and esports videos. Bilibili Inc. (NASDAQ:BILI) provides a live streaming service where the audience can interact with gamers and streamers. The company also owns Bilibili Gaming (BLG), which is a professional esports organization. As of November 1, 2023, Bilibili Inc. (NASDAQ:BILI) has a market capitalization of $5.43 billion.
Market Capitalization: $5.87 billion
KRAFTON Inc. (KRX:259960) is a South Korean video game holding company with a market capitalization of $5.87 billion as of November 1, 2023. PUBG: Battlegrounds, a battle royale game, is developed by PUBG Studios and published by KRAFTON Inc. (KRX:259960). PUBG: Battlegrounds franchise is a popular title in the world of esports, and KRAFTON Inc. (KRX:259960) ranks among the top most valuable esports companies.
Market Capitalization: $6.72 billion
Capcom Co. Ltd. (TYO:9697) is a Japanese video game company with a market capitalization of $6.72 billion as of November 1, 2023. Capcom Co. Ltd. (TYO:9697) has created a number of multi-million-selling game franchises, including, Devil May Cry, Monster Hunter, Resident Evil and Street Fighter. Capcom Pro Tour features the latest flagship title of the legendary Street Fighter series and it has become a popular destination for competitive fighting games.
Market Capitalization: $7.17 billion
Konami Group Corporation (TYO:9766) is a Japanese multinational video game developer and publisher. The company’s product PES has evolved into "eFootball", and Konami Group Corporation (TYO:9766) owns one of the biggest esports platforms for football fans around the world. Konami Group Corporation (TYO:9766) has a market capitalization of around $7.17 billion as of November 1, 2023.
Market Capitalization: $13.63 billion
BANDAI NAMCO Holdings Inc. (TYO:7832) is a Japanese entertainment holding company founded that specializes in arcades, anime, and video games. As of November 1, 2023, the company has a market capitalization of $13.63 billion and so it ranks among the top 10 most valuable esports companies. BANDAI NAMCO Holdings Inc. (TYO:7832) owns a number of popular game franchises, including Pac-Man, Ace Combat, Dark Souls, and Tekken. Tekken is one of the biggest names in the world of esports.
Annual Revenue from Gaming Business: $14.23 Billion
NetEase, Inc. (NASDAQ:NTES) is a Chinese IT company that provides online services while also developing and operating online PC and mobile games. It operates some of Asia’s most popular competitive titles in the esports world. Some of the games launched by the company include the Westward Journey series, Tianxia III, Heroes of Tang Dynasty Zero, and Ghost II. NetEase, Inc. (NASDAQ:NTES) invests heavily in local esports leagues and tournaments. The company generated an annual revenue of $14.23 billion from its gaming business.
Market Capitalization: $16.15 billion
NEXON Co. Ltd. (TYO:3659) is a South Korean video game publisher that publishes renowned titles such as MapleStory, Dungeon & Fighter, Sudden Attack, and KartRider. KartRider is a prominent name in esports tournaments, and the video game is developed and published by NEXON Co. Ltd. (TYO:3659). As of November 1, 2023, NEXON Co. Ltd. (TYO:3659) has a market capitalization of $16.15 billion.
Annual Revenue from Gaming Business: $16.2 Billion
Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) is an American multinational technology corporation that owns Xbox, a video game console system. Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) became an important esports company by acquiring Activision Blizzard. This acquisition brought major competitive games like Call of Duty, Overwatch and World of Warcraft under Microsoft’s umbrella. As one of the top most valuable esports companies, Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) reported an annual revenue of $16.2 billion from its gaming business.
Annual Revenue from Gaming Business: $17.54 Billion
Sony Corporation (NYSE:SNE) is a Japanese multinational conglomerate corporation. It has a dedicated “Sony Esports Project” and the company reported an annual revenue of $17.54 billion from its game and network services business. Through its iconic PlayStation brand, Sony Corporation (NYSE:SNE) remains one of the top most valuable esports companies. Competitive esports use PlayStation as well as other gaming consoles for tournaments.
Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ:EA), Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc. (NASDAQ:TTWO), and Roblox Corporation (NYSE:RBLX) are some of the biggest names in the esports and gaming industry.
Click to continue reading and see Top 5 Most Valuable Esports Companies.
Suggested Articles:
30 Most Stressful Jobs in the US
12 Best Asian Stocks To Buy Now
10 Stocks That Will Skyrocket
Disclosure: None. Top 20 Most Valuable Esports Companies is published on Insider Monkey.