url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/welcome-club-look-first-24-150000083.html
title:Welcome_to_the_Club_A_Look_Into_the_First_24_Days_of_EA_SPORTS_FC_24
REDWOOD CITY, Calif., October 26, 2023--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Today, Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ: EA) revealed how fans are interacting with the World’s Game across the first 24 days of EA SPORTS FC™ 24 following worldwide launch.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231026069999/en/
Welcome to the Club: A Look Into the First 24 Days of EA SPORTS FC 24 (PHOTO: EA SPORTS)
In the 24 days since worldwide launch on September 29, there have been 1.6 billion games* played. Football fans worldwide have scored a total of 4.1 billion goals in the world’s game, across 200+ nations.
"This year is extra special as we celebrate not only the successful launch of this year’s game, but the start of the new era of EA SPORTS FC. EA SPORTS FC 24 is just the beginning of our journey in building the fan-first future of football," said Nick Wlodyka, SVP & GM of EA SPORTS FC. "We look forward to continuing to build the world’s biggest football club, to engage, entertain and represent fans all over the world."
In Ultimate Team™, France, England, Spain, Brazil, and Germany have been the most represented nations in Ultimate Team Squads, with the Premier League, LALIGA EA SPORTS, Bundesliga, Serie A Made In Italy, and Ligue 1 Uber Eats paving the path as the highest represented leagues.
In Career Mode Experiences, EA SPORTS FC 24 has seen Kylian Mbappé become the most sought-after player in the transfer market, with Jesús Corona, Alphonso Davies, Jude Bellingham and Alejandro Garnacho rounding out the top five transfers.
FC Barcelona has been the most selected women’s football team within FC 24 alongside Chelsea, Arsenal, and Olympique Lyonnais whilst the most selected men’s teams have been Real Madrid, Manchester City, FC Barcelona, Manchester United, and Liverpool. The top 3 most popular matchups for men and women include:
Top 3 Most Popular Matchups - Men
FC Barcelona vs. Real Madrid
Manchester City vs. Real Madrid
Bayern München vs. Real Madrid
Top 3 Most Popular Matchups - Women
Chelsea vs. FC Barcelona
FC Barcelona vs. Real Madrid
FC Barcelona vs. Olympique Lyonnais
Players have built their ultimate dream squads with women’s football coming to Ultimate Team™, and over 739 million women’s player items have taken to the pitch in Ultimate Team starting XIs heading into online play.
With an incredible number of goals scored, strikers have had a busy start to FC 24. The overall top men’s and women’s scorers so far are:
Men’s Top 5 Scorers
Darwin Núñez
Ansu Fati
Erling Haaland
Timo Werner
Randal Kolo Muani
Women’s Top 5 Scorers
Sam Kerr
Kadidiatou Diani
Alex Morgan
Trinity Rodman
Alexia Putellas
As goal after goal flows in, players are keen to celebrate, with the ‘knee slide’ proven to be the most used celebration to date. ‘Arms to the crowd’ was the second most used, with the ‘back slide’ rounding out the top 3.
Fans who play EA SPORTS FC™ 24 still have the opportunity to become an FC Founder. Play by November 1, 2023 and unlock exclusive benefits including in-game vanity, and, in FC 24, objectives and tasks in Ultimate Team, including a Founder Evolution experience. As a one-time offer, fans can be there at the beginning of a new era for EA SPORTS FC and claim their title as an FC Founder to join the club with style.
With more than 19,000 athletes across 700 teams and 30 leagues, unrivalled authenticity in EA SPORTS FC™ 24 is brought to life through a roster of players from the biggest clubs and leagues from around the world, including LALIGA EA SPORTS, the Premier League, Bundesliga, Serie A, CONMEBOL Libertadores, UEFA Champions League, UEFA Women's Champions League, the Barclays Women’s Super League, and more.
EA SPORTS FC 24 is developed by EA Vancouver and EA Romania and is now available worldwide for PlayStation 5, Xbox Series X|S, PC, PS4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch.
EA SPORTS FC™ 24 assets are available to download on the official EA press site at PRESS.EA.COM.
*including Ultimate Team™ Moments
About Electronic Arts
Electronic Arts (NASDAQ: EA) is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. The Company develops and delivers games, content and online services for Internet-connected consoles, mobile devices and personal computers.
In fiscal year 2023, EA posted GAAP net revenue of approximately $7.4 billion. Headquartered in Redwood City, California, EA is recognized for a portfolio of critically acclaimed, high-quality brands such as EA SPORTS FC™, Battlefield™, Apex Legends™, The Sims™, Madden NFL, Need for Speed™, Titanfall™, Plants vs. Zombies™ and F1®. More information about EA is available at www.ea.com/news.
EA, EA SPORTS, EA SPORTS FC, Frostbite, Battlefield, Need for Speed, Apex Legends, The Sims, Titanfall and Plants vs. Zombies are trademarks of Electronic Arts Inc. John Madden, NFL, and F1 are the property of their respective owners and used with permission.
Category: EA SPORTS
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231026069999/en/
Contacts
Eric EscaravageGlobal PR Lead, EA SPORTS FCeescaravage@ea.com