url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-electronic-arts-ea-top-135007253.html
title:Why_Electronic_Arts_EA_is_a_Top_Momentum_Stock_for_the_LongTerm
It doesn't matter your age or experience: taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals for all investors.
Many investors also have a go-to methodology that helps guide their buy and sell decisions. One way to find winning stocks based on your preferred way of investing is to use the Zacks Style Scores, which are indicators that rate stocks based on three widely-followed investing types: value, growth, and momentum.
Is This 1 Momentum Stock a Screaming Buy Right Now?
Momentum investors, who live by the saying "the trend is your friend," are most interested in taking advantage of upward or downward trends in a stock's price or earnings outlook. Utilizing one-week price change and the monthly percentage change in earnings estimates, among other factors, the Momentum Style Score can help determine favorable times to buy high-momentum stocks.
Electronic Arts (EA)
Electronic Arts, popularly known as EA, is a leading developer, marketer, publisher and distributor of digital interactive entertainment, including games, extra content and services. Its portfolio includes wholly owned games like Apex Legends, Battlefield, and The Sims or licensed from others, including Madden NFL, Star Wars and others.
EA is a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) stock, with a Momentum Style Score of B and VGM Score of B. Shares are down 2.5% over the past one week and up 7.9% over the past four weeks. EA has gained 3.8% in the last one-year period as well. Looking at trading volume, an average of 1,805,979 shares exchanged hands over the last 20 trading days.
Momentum investors don't just pay attention to price changes; positive earnings play a crucial role, too. Two analysts revised their earnings estimate upwards in the last 60 days for fiscal 2024. The Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0.01 to $6.86 per share. EA boasts an average earnings surprise of 7.9%.
Investors should take the time to consider EA for their portfolios due to its solid Zacks Ranks, notable earnings metrics, and impressive Momentum and VGM Style Scores.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research