url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/returns-capital-texas-instruments-nasdaq-120028102.html
title:The_Returns_On_Capital_At_Texas_Instruments_NASDAQTXN_Dont_Inspire_Confidence
If we want to find a stock that could multiply over the long term, what are the underlying trends we should look for? One common approach is to try and find a company with returns on capital employed (ROCE) that are increasing, in conjunction with a growing amount of capital employed. This shows us that it's a compounding machine, able to continually reinvest its earnings back into the business and generate higher returns. So while Texas Instruments (NASDAQ:TXN) has a high ROCE right now, lets see what we can decipher from how returns are changing.
If you haven't worked with ROCE before, it measures the 'return' (pre-tax profit) a company generates from capital employed in its business. To calculate this metric for Texas Instruments, this is the formula:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) รท (Total Assets - Current Liabilities)
0.27 = US$7.7b รท (US$32b - US$2.7b) (Based on the trailing twelve months to September 2023).
Therefore, Texas Instruments has an ROCE of 27%. In absolute terms that's a great return and it's even better than the Semiconductor industry average of 11%.
 Check out our latest analysis for Texas Instruments 
In the above chart we have measured Texas Instruments' prior ROCE against its prior performance, but the future is arguably more important. If you're interested, you can view the analysts predictions in our free report on analyst forecasts for the company.
On the surface, the trend of ROCE at Texas Instruments doesn't inspire confidence. To be more specific, while the ROCE is still high, it's fallen from 42% where it was five years ago. Given the business is employing more capital while revenue has slipped, this is a bit concerning. This could mean that the business is losing its competitive advantage or market share, because while more money is being put into ventures, it's actually producing a lower return - "less bang for their buck" per se.
In summary, we're somewhat concerned by Texas Instruments' diminishing returns on increasing amounts of capital. However the stock has delivered a 68% return to shareholders over the last five years, so investors might be expecting the trends to turn around. Regardless, we don't feel too comfortable with the fundamentals so we'd be steering clear of this stock for now.
If you'd like to know more about Texas Instruments, we've spotted   2 warning signs,  and 1 of them doesn't sit too well with us.
Texas Instruments is not the only stock earning high returns. If you'd like to see more, check out our free list of companies earning high returns on equity with solid fundamentals.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.