url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/lucid-introduces-u-referral-program-130000066.html
title:Lucid_Introduces_US_Referral_Program_Benefiting_Current_and_Future_Owners
NEWARK, Calif., Oct. 23, 2023 /PRNewswire/ -- Lucid Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: LCID), setting new standards for luxury electric experience with the Lucid Air, winner of the 2023 World Luxury Car Award, today launched the Lucid Referral Program in the United States. The two-sided rewards program extends exclusive benefits to current Lucid Air owners, who can share their unique referral link with friends and family to give them new vehicle purchase discounts.
"Our mission at Lucid is to inspire the adoption of sustainable mobility, and our customers are our greatest advocates in this mission," said Zak Edson, VP of Sales & Service. "The Lucid Referral Program celebrates and rewards our Lucid owners for their excitement and commitment to the brand. We deeply value the Lucid community and are steadfast in providing a world-class customer experience long after customers take delivery of their vehicle."
For Current Owners
Lucid Air owners will have access to unique referral links they can share with prospective customers in their network of family, friends, and colleagues. Once those links are successfully utilized to purchase and take delivery of a vehicle, the owner will receive points which accumulate toward the redemption of a variety of branded gear, vehicle accessories, or limited-edition products.
Owners will also be able to redeem their points for Lucid Experiences, including exclusive tours of Lucid's headquarters in Silicon Valley and Advanced Manufacturing Plant (AMP-1) in Casa Grande, Arizona. As part of the tour, owners will learn about the company's technology and the manufacturing process directly from Lucid's leadership.
Current owners can visit lucidmotors.com/referral-program for a full list of program rewards and details.
For Future Owners
New customers who utilize a referral link when ordering their vehicle can receive vehicle discounts (or post-delivery rebates for leasing customers) of up to $1,250 depending on the Lucid Air model:
$750 on Air Pure
$1,000 on Air Touring
$1,250 on Air Grand Touring
Sapphire-branded duffel bag upcycled from the same leather featured in the Lucid Air Sapphire, for Sapphire deliveries.
From the moment new owners take delivery of their vehicles, they can share their own unique referral link to begin earning points for their own rewards. Terms and conditions apply. See our referral page for more details.
About Lucid Group
Lucid's mission is to inspire the adoption of sustainable energy by creating advanced technologies and the most captivating luxury electric vehicles centered around the human experience. The company's first car, the Air, is a state-of-the-art luxury sedan with a California-inspired design. Lucid Air Grand Touring features an official EPA estimated 516 miles of range. Assembled at Lucid's factories in Casa Grande, Arizona, and King Abdullah Economic City (KAEC), Saudi Arabia, deliveries of Lucid Air are currently underway to customers in the U.S., Canada, Europe, and the Middle East.
Media Contacts 
media@lucidmotors.com
Trademarks 
This communication contains trademarks, service marks, trade names and copyrights of Lucid Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries and other companies, which are the property of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements
This communication includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as "estimate," "plan," "project," "forecast," "intend," "will," "shall," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "seek," "target," "continue," "could," "may," "might," "possible," "potential," "predict" or other similar expressions that predict or indicate future events or trends or that are not statements of historical matters. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding plans and expectations with respect to the Lucid Referral Program, including benefits for current and future owners, available options and point values needed for redemption. These statements are based on various assumptions, whether or not identified in this communication, and on the current expectations of Lucid's management. These forward-looking statements are not intended to serve as and must not be relied on by any investor as, a guarantee, an assurance, or a definitive statement of fact or probability. Actual events and circumstances are difficult or impossible to predict and may differ from these forward-looking statements. Many actual events and circumstances are beyond the control of Lucid. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A of Lucid's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2023, as well as other documents Lucid has filed or will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If any of these risks materialize or Lucid's assumptions prove incorrect, actual results could differ materially from the results implied by these forward-looking statements. There may be additional risks that Lucid currently does not know or that Lucid currently believes are immaterial that could also cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-looking statements reflect Lucid's expectations, plans or forecasts of future events and views as of the date of this communication. Lucid anticipates that subsequent events and developments will cause Lucid's assessments to change. However, while Lucid may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Lucid specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Lucid's assessments as of any date subsequent to the date of this communication. Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed upon the forward-looking statements.
View original content to download multimedia:https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/lucid-introduces-us-referral-program-benefiting-current-and-future-owners-301963874.html
SOURCE Lucid Group