url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/bringing-back-ex-ceo-rarely-153612686.html
title:Bringing_Back_an_ExCEO_Rarely_Restores_Market_Values
(Bloomberg) -- When Dollar General Corp. brought back Todd Vasos for a second stint at the top earlier this month, it became just the latest struggling household name to try to fix its problems by reappointing a successful former chief executive officer.
Most Read from Bloomberg
Tech Giants Signal Rebound as Amazon, Intel Rally: Markets Wrap
Controversial Chip in Huawei Phone Produced on ASML Machine
US Economy Grew at a 4.9% Pace Last Quarter, Fastest Since 2021
Israel Latest: Israel Says Key Planner of Oct. 7 Attacks Killed
What Happened Inside Morgan Stanley After Ted Pick Was Named CEO
In the last three years at least five other publicly-traded US companies — Walt Disney Co., Starbucks Corp., DuPont de Nemours Inc., Bausch & Lomb Corp. and Stitch Fix Inc. — have reappointed, or boomeranged, former bosses during tumultuous times when their share prices were falling. Dollar General is currently marred by worker safety issues, Disney was fighting an activist and struggling to navigate a streaming transition, Starbucks was battling a union drive, and DuPont needed to cut costs.
Yet while such reappointments tend to steady or even jolt slumping stocks in the short term — Dollar General is up about 20% since the Vasos announcement — they rarely claw back lost gains.
The six companies collectively shed about $88 billion in market value in the six months before the reappointment announcements, but half a year later only $10 billion of that had been recovered, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Triumphant examples like Steve Jobs at Apple Inc. are the exception, not the rule.
“Every boomerang CEO is a failed succession,” Elena Botelho, a partner at leadership advisory firm ghSMART, said in an interview.
Badly managed C-suite transitions cost companies in the S&P 1500 an estimated $1 trillion in market value every year, according to a recent analysis in the Harvard Business Review.
The spate of reinstatements emphasizes the difficulty of transitioning away from long-serving, successful bosses — like Disney’s recent boomerang of Bob Iger after his anointed successor, Bob Chapek, was ousted after less than three years. They’re tacit acknowledgments that the chosen heir wasn’t up to the task, and while the formers can seem like a reassuring return to a safe pair of hands, the opportunity costs can include lost shareholder value and complicated successions if future leadership feels undermined.
“[CEOs] are always walking on eggshells for the first couple of years, and now there’s increased likelihood that the guy who just handed over the reins to me might actually come back if I make a misstep,” Botelho said.
Dollar General, Disney and DuPont declined to comment. Starbucks did not respond to a request for comment.
Read more: Bob Iger’s Billion-Dollar Crisis Puts His Legacy on the Line
Boomerangs can sometimes reflect a superficial selection process, where a board is “seduced” by a charismatic, extroverted executive, Botelho said, while conversely a more thorough process can net replacements like Microsoft Corp.’s Satya Nadella, who has overseen a $2 trillion surge in the company’s market value since his 2014 promotion.
There’s been a broad increase in executive turnover this year with more than 1,400 CEOs stepping down, up almost 50% from a year ago and the most since at least 2002, according to a recent report. Companies with long-tenured chiefs face difficult successions, increasing the possibility they may boomerang.
Besides Warren Buffett — whose Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has been dogged by succession anxiety for decades — BlackRock Inc.’s Larry Fink and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s Leonard Schleifer are among the most tenured bosses of S&P 500 companies. On average, the financial industry has the longest tenured leaders of any sector, leaving it primed for new CEOs.
Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek
Sam Bankman-Fried Takes Stand in Reminder of Crypto’s Epic Fall
X, One Year Later: How Elon Musk Made a Mess of Twitter’s Business
Venezuela’s Primary Sweep Puts Maduro and Biden in the Hot Seat
No One Understands Corporate Boycotts Like This Former Trump Researcher
The War That Broke Social Media
©2023 Bloomberg L.P.