url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/starbucks-seeks-double-rewards-members-210346938.html
title:Starbucks_Seeks_to_Double_Rewards_Members_to_Drive_Growth
(Bloomberg) -- Starbucks Corp. told investors Thursday it plans to meet its growth targets by improving efficiency at its cafés while dramatically boosting its digital business and rewards program.
Most Read from Bloomberg
Intuit Is Closing Personal-Finance App Mint, Shifts Users to Credit Karma
Immigrants Are Leaving Canada at Faster Pace, Study Shows
S&P 500 Rises Almost 2%; Apple Down in Late Hours: Markets Wrap
Israel Latest: Troops Encircle Gaza City as Death Toll Climbs
Harvard, Yale Warned by Top Law Firms About Antisemitism
It plans to accelerate store renovations while opening more locations that target on-the-go customers with formats such as double-sided drive-thrus. Starbucks is also pledging to double its 75 million rewards members in five years, in part by adding partners in the finance and hospitality industries.
Underpinning the strategy will be an increased focus on efficiency, with $3 billion in cost savings planned. Most of this will come from supply-chain improvements. Starbucks also plans to boost barista pay through more hours and higher wages.
“We see a long runway of high return investment opportunities and changes that we believe will make us more efficient,” Chief Executive Officer Laxman Narasimhan said.
The event was Starbucks’ first presentation for investors since founder Howard Schultz wrapped up his third stint as CEO. The company reiterated its goal of expanding its global store footprint to 55,000 in 2030 from the current 38,000.
Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek
The US Housing Market Has Become an Impossible Mess
World’s Safest Market Becomes a Magnet for Big Investors
These Five Countries Are Key Economic ‘Connectors’ in a Fragmenting World
Foxconn Makes Your iPhone. Now It Wants to Make Your Electric Car
Shipping Startup Flexport Is in Crisis Mode Heading Into the Holiday Season
©2023 Bloomberg L.P.