url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/starbucks-corporation-nasdaq-sbux-q4-163427301.html
title:Starbucks_Corporation_NASDAQSBUX_Q4_2023_Earnings_Call_Transcript
Starbucks Corporation (NASDAQ:SBUX) Q4 2023 Earnings Call Transcript November 2, 2023
Operator: Hello. My name is Kevin, and I'll be your conference operator today. I'd like to welcome everyone to Starbucks Fourth Quarter and Full Fiscal Year 2023 Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I will now turn the call over to Tiffany Willis, Vice President, Investor Relations. Ms. Willis, you may now begin your conference.
Tiffany Willis: Thank you, Kevin. And good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Starbucks' fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2023 Results. Today's discussion will be led by Laxman Narasimhan, Chief Executive Officer; and Rachel Ruggeri, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from these statements. Any such statements should be considered in conjunction with cautionary statements in our earnings release and risk factors discussed in our filings with the SEC, including our latest annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Starbucks assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements or information. GAAP results in fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2023 and the comparative period include several items related to strategic actions, including restructuring and impairment charges, transaction and integration costs, and other items. These items are excluded from our non-GAAP results. All numbers referenced on today's call are on a non-GAAP basis, unless otherwise noted or there is no non-GAAP adjustment related to the metric. For non-GAAP financial measures mentioned in today's call, please refer to the earnings release on our website at investor.starbucks.com to find reconciliations of those non-GAAP measures to their corresponding GAAP measures.
This conference call is being webcast, and an archive of this webcast will be available on our website until Friday, December 1, 2023. Also, for calendar planning purposes, please note that our first quarter fiscal year 2024 earnings conference call has been tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, January 30, 2024. And with that, I'll now turn the call over to Laxman.
Laxman Narasimhan: Thank you, Tiffany. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Starbucks' Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2023 Earnings Conference Call. Thank you in advance to those who will join us this afternoon where we will share an update on our long-term strategies and celebrate the launch of a holiday at Starbucks. Before we get started this morning, I'd like to express my deepest gratitude to our Starbucks partners around the world for a very successful fiscal year 2023. I've learned through connecting with so many of you how our reinvention plan has continued to be well executed, giving us great momentum in this age of our transformation at Starbucks. I have discovered how our brand is uniquely delivered in our stores and digitally through our extraordinary partners and the tremendous headroom we see for our global business.
Turning now to our business performance. Rachel and I will share details of our strong results delivered in the quarter and fiscal year 2023, and we will also share our confidence in the company's long-term opportunity with guidance for fiscal year 2024. What you will take away from this call today is that we have great momentum, fueled largely by our reinvention plan. We are seeing the work pay off through improved partner and customer experiences, as well as captured improvements in efficiency and margin. We believe this bodes well for this next year and for years beyond. To deliver our long-term sustainable growth, we are focused on five areas. You will hear more on what we call our triple shot reinvention and our continued momentum this afternoon.
The discussion will provide a more detailed outlook on our three core and two enabling priority areas. First, we will elevate the brand through our stores. Second, we will strengthen and scale in digital. Third, we will become truly global. Fourth, we will unlock efficiencies, including outside stock. Finally, we will reinvigorate the partner culture at Starbucks. In the fourth quarter, our total company revenue reached a record $9.4 billion, representing an 11% increase year-over-year. Full-year revenue reached a record of $36 billion, representing 12% growth year-over-year for fiscal 2023, or 14% when excluding the 2% impact of foreign currency translation, aligning our revenue growth at the high end of our guidance range. Equally impressive, our global comparable store sales increased 8% year-over-year, both for the quarter and the fiscal year 2023, driven by a healthy mix of ticket and transaction growth.
We grew earnings per share by 31% to $1.06 for the quarter and by $0.20 to $3.54 for the fiscal year, again, aligning to the top end of our guidance range. Importantly, we grew margin by 310 basis points for the fourth quarter and 100 basis points on a full-year basis. And we did all this while growing our global store count to over 38,000, in line with our store growth guidance of 7% in fiscal year 2023. Demand for Starbucks remains strong around the world. Here in the U.S., our largest market, we saw momentum sustain throughout the quarter. Revenue for the quarter was up a record 12%, underpinned by 8% comps. We had a remarkable fall launch that led to record-breaking average weekly sales. Our 90-day active Starbucks Rewards members reached a new record this quarter of nearly 33 million 90-day active members, and setting records in spend per member and total member spend.
Customers remain loyal to their favorite four menu classics that have stood the test of time, including the Pumpkin Spice Latte, which celebrated its 20th anniversary. In addition to very strong performance in our core offerings, we also have strong performance with new offerings, including our Apple-inspired beverages and food items. The results from the quarter, including the dynamic way we are driving ticket growth, give us great confidence in our menu innovation on both an individual product overall portfolio level. We have proven that complementary yet competing products and flavors can successfully coexist, such as pumpkin and Apple, with the right menu innovation, marketing mix, and strategic pricing strategies. As customer demands have evolved, we've delivered more beverages, food, and personalization and customization across existing and new formats to meet their expectations and grow the business.
Our continued investments in our partners, equipment, supply chain, and technology are paying off, evidenced by a margin expansion across North America to 23.2% this past quarter. Timed with our busiest cold foam promotion of the year, the recent rollout of our new portable cold foamers to all U.S. company-operated stores, enhanced productivity in the fourth quarter. and lessened the trade on our partners, while continuing to meet the high cold beverage demand. In support of the continued growth in cold beverages, we delivered over 550 new Nugget ice machines and remained on track with installation prioritized for our most ice-constrained stores in fiscal year 2024. Clover Vertica, our on-demand single-cup brewer, is now installed in over 600 of our stores across the U.S., and we continue the on-schedule rollout of the Siren System cold and food stations, prioritizing new stores and renovation locations.
Our portfolio and pipeline management of new equipment design and rollout plans are robust and enabled us to deliver our results. We have created a more stable environment in our stores. Hours per partner increased in the quarter by 5% as we continue filing schedules that fit our partners and customers' needs. Total was down in the fourth quarter by 10%, while barista tenure increased by 16% for the quarter. Customer connection scores also improved in the quarter relative to this time last year. We did all of this by investing over 20% of this year's profits back into our partners and stores through wages, training, equipment, and new store growth. All this is further evidence that our strategy is working. Turning to International. In the fourth quarter, we saw record store growth of nearly 600 stores across the segment, with International store count remaining higher than that of the U.S. We also experienced record double-digit revenue growth internationally in the quarter, with continued growth on every key market around the world.
Our comparable same-store sales in our company-operated markets for both the U.K. and Japan remained well above historical averages in fiscal year 2023, with growth attributed to higher profitability and higher productivity store formats, as well as elevated digital and partner experiences. We saw strong customer demand for our beverage and food offerings around the world with record global demand for our pumpkin platform. And in our international license markets, Starbucks Rewards programs grew by 4 million 90-day active members, now contributing to 30% of total sales, up 9 percentage points in just one year, driven by the growth for Starbucks Digital Solutions. Supported by our strong brand globally, outside of China, our International segment is well ahead of the growth pace we indicated at last year's Investor Day, with focused growth in our company-operated markets and motivated business partners powering our licensed stores.
Turning to China. We were pleased with our performance in the quarter. delivering revenue growth of 8% from the prior year or up 15% when excluding approximately 6% impact of foreign currency translation. This has further supported by a comp of 5% squarely in line with our expectations. Full-year revenue grew to $3 billion, up 3% from the prior year or up 11% excluding approximately 8% impact foreign currency translation with comp of 2%. Our performance in China improved sequentially quarter-over-quarter, with revenue in the second half of the year 20% higher than the first half, reflecting our growth momentum. These results underscore the strength of beverage and food offerings, the success of our market strategies, and the powerful execution unleashed by our partners in China as we capture the abundant opportunities in front of us.
We continue to see strength from coffee-forward innovations, delighting our customers with locally relevant product innovation like the Moose Espresso and the smaller-sized Intenso range, a first in the world. We're also seeing higher food sales with tremendous headroom in this area, driving both transaction and ticket opportunities. In Q4, we saw continued momentum across the omnichannel experiences of Starbucks in China with strength in store through Mobile Order & Pay, Mobile Order Delivery, E-commerce, and in channels. China now has over 21 million active loyalty members, representing 22% year-over-year growth, with many members skewing younger to build our next generation of customers. In the quarter, we opened a record 326 net new purpose-driven stores in China, reaching 13% net new store growth over the prior year to over 6,800 stores at the end of fiscal year 2023.
The outstanding financial returns of new stores give us confidence we will reach our goal of 9,000 stores by 2025, opening nearly 1,000 net new stores every year. Finally, the September opening of the China Coffee Innovation Park, designed to be our most energy-efficient and sustainable coffee manufacturing and distribution center in the world, further signaled our commitment to the largest consumer market in the world and the growth of our business in China for China. We look forward to sharing more on the headroom we see in China later today. The momentum against the backdrop of headwinds in China this past year gives us optimism in our position and affirm our distinctive competitive advantages for our business. These advantages include our uplifting partners, including our China leadership team, our distinctive stores, our vertically integrated and highly digitized efficient operations, and our relevant innovation.
We will maintain our leading position in the premium market as we continue to grow in scale across our current portfolio and through new tiers of cities in this growing market of coffee drinkers. Finally, our channel business continues to elevate the Starbucks brand around the world at home and on the go, creating Starbucks moments for consumers outside of our retail stores. We're the number one ready-to-drink brand around the world. Notably, in the fourth quarter, we celebrated our five-year partnership with the Global Coffee Alliance with Nestlé. This Nestlé relationship, which includes We Proudly Serve Food service locations as well as additional partnerships, such as our Nova Mera channel partnership with PepsiCo and international partners like Tingyi and Arla have helped us grow our customer touch points, and is now in nearly 90 markets around the world.
For fiscal year 2023, we saw notable growth in our leading channel market position as well as accretive brand equity as we continue to be recognized for our innovation. Some notable accolades include awards in China Ready Select, in the Europe, Middle East, Africa multiserve business as well as achieving 1 billion in servings in Korea and selling out of Grab & Go in Japan. In closing, while navigating an environment of unprecedented volatility throughout fiscal year 2023, we finished our fourth quarter and full year strong delivering on our guidance. Our reinvention is moving ahead of schedule, fueling revenue growth, efficiency and margin expansion. Notably, we continue to see the positive impact of our reinvention on our partner and customer experiences, proof points that we can continue to innovate, grow, and strengthen our business while creating value for all.
Looking ahead, we remain fully optimistic about our headroom across the U.S. and internationally, and we see limitless possibilities across all areas of the business. While the global business environment remains uncertain, we are confident in our ability to adapt and innovate to meet evolving consumer needs. We will continue to invest in our partners to expand upon our reinvention and to deliver on our sustainability and social impact initiatives, all while driving long-term growth. We feel very good about the business momentum for next year, the continued strength of the brand, and the opportunity for growth in the years ahead. I look forward to sharing greater detail around these strategies for growth with you later this afternoon. Our performance this past year and the plans ahead give us great confidence in the multiple paths we have in front of us to achieve our long-term results.
I will now hand the call over to Rachel to walk you through further details of the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2023 results, as well as our fiscal year 2024 guidance. Thank you all for joining us this morning, and we look forward to seeing you this afternoon. Rachel?
Rachel Ruggeri: Thank you, Laxman, and good morning, everyone. I'm very pleased to discuss our strong Q4 and full fiscal year 2023 performance, which delivered on our full-year guidance shared at the 2022 Investor Day. Our fiscal year 2023 double-digit earnings growth was a direct result of both double-digit revenue growth and margin expansion, as our focus and disciplined execution of our reinvention delivered tangible financial results. Our Q4 consolidated revenue reached a record $9.4 billion, up 9% from the prior year or up 12% when excluding a 1% impact of foreign currency translation. As Laxman mentioned, the U.S. business delivered strong performance with record-breaking average weekly sales from an overwhelmingly successful fall launch, and our International business was also strong, with China performing in line with our expectations.
Combined, this resulted in our consolidated comparable store sales growth of 8% and net new company-operated store growth of 7% globally over the prior year, as well as sustained momentum in our global licensed markets. Q4 consolidated operating margin expanded 310 basis points from the prior year to 18.2%, exceeding our expectations, primarily driven by increased efficiency throughout our U.S. stores as our strong execution on reinvention amplified results even greater than we anticipated, coupled with sales leverage and pricing. Margin expansion continued to be partially offset by our investments in store partners as well as higher G&A costs and support of reinvention. Q4 EPS was $1.06, up 31% from the prior year, driven by strong performance across our segments, especially the U.S., as its results were bolstered by the amplified success of our reinvention.
For fiscal year 2023, our consolidated revenue reached a record $36 billion, up 12% from the prior year or up 14% when excluding approximately two percentage impact of foreign currency translation. Consistent with our guidance, our revenue growth included 8% comparable store growth and 7% net new company-operated store growth over prior year, as well as ongoing contributions from our global licensed store businesses. Our fiscal year 2023 consolidated op margin was 16.1%, up 100 basis points versus prior year. And EPS of $3.54 was up 20% over prior year. above our recent guidance of 16% to 17%. I'll now provide segment highlights for Q4. North America delivered another quarter of record revenue with $6.9 billion in Q4, up 12% from the prior year, driven by a combination of an 8% increase in comparable store sales, consisting of 6% and 2% growth in average ticket and transactions, respectively, as well as net new company-operated store growth of 4% over the prior year and contributions from our licensed store business, which continues to benefit from increased travel.
When considering growth from all stores, comp new and licensed, we were pleased to see more than two-thirds of our growth came from transactions, mix, attach, and customization, which we collectively call demand. Our U.S. business delivered 8% comparable store sales growth in Q4, primarily driven by strong ticket performance with 6% comp growth, which benefited from volume, mix, attach, customization, and pricing. Our customers continue to favor more premium beverages, creating a new normal as it relates to mix and customization. To fuel this, we continue to lean in with innovation, offering our Iced Pumpkin Cream Chai Tea Latte, which boosted tea cells; as well as Pumpkin Cream Cold Foam, which become a customization favorite with our customers.
In addition to our beverage success, we also had another record quarter of food attached, driven by both our core breakfast sandwiches and promotional items, such as our Baked Apple Croissant. The success we're having in driving incremental spend gives us confidence that we're delivering meaningful value and a differentiated experience to our customers. Transaction comparable sales growth in the quarter was 2%, which, combined with another quarter of a record ticket, drove multiple record average weekly sales, including delivering our sixth-highest sales weeks ever, driven by our successful fall launch. Demand continued outside of our promotion windows, which translates to future opportunities as we leverage targeted offers to our most loyal customers, increasing efficiency as we create a more personalized experience.
As it relates to demand, it was another record-breaking quarter for key aspects of our Starbucks Rewards program, active members, spend per member, and total member spend, which all surpassed previous highs. To further illustrate the strength of demand, we saw total customer growth among our occasional customers as well. Collectively, this demand speaks to the stickiness of our business. That, coupled with increased customer connection scores and growth across transactions, mix, customization, and attach, all leads to a durable and growing business. U.S. licensed store revenue remained strong in Q4, up 18% from the prior year, benefiting from consumers adopting pre-COVID routines of summer and business travel and expanded digital offerings, such as MOP and airports and curbside at select retailers, enabling us with more ways to meet our customers where they are, supporting increasing demand.
North America's operating margin was 23.2% in Q4, expanding 420 basis points from the prior year, driven by increased efficiency in our stores, largely from reinvention, sales leverage, and favorable impacts of pricing, partially offset by continued investment in our partners. Moving on to International. In the quarter, the segment delivered $2 billion in revenue, up 11% from the prior year or up 15% when excluding approximately 3% impact from foreign currency translation. Our revenue growth momentum continues off of a remarkable prior quarter and stems from double-digit growth in the majority of our international regions demonstrating global strength. The segment delivered a 5% increase in comparable store sales driven by a 6% transaction growth, as store traffic increased and digital engagement continued with an increasing Starbucks Rewards member base.
In addition, the International segment delivered 12% net new company-operated store growth year-over-year, with China contributing a significant portion of store growth as they had their highest store openings this year, equating to almost four new store openings daily in Q4, exceeding our expectations. Collectively, the segment surpassed the 20,000-store mark with ample headroom for growth across markets in the years to come. Shifting to China. As Laxman shared, China's revenue in the quarter and on a full-year basis grew by double digits driven by strength in our new stores and comparable store sales growth of 5%. Importantly, China's average weekly sales grew quarter-over-quarter, in line with our guidance of low to mid-single-digit growth.
Comparable store sales growth of 5% was driven by strong transaction growth of 8% over the prior year, reflecting the strong brand affinity we create with locally relevant food and beverage and the consistent experience our partners deliver with every visit, differentiating us in the market. We continue to see long-term growth in China with significant opportunities in dayparts, digital offerings, and store format, and accordingly, continue to make investments for the future of our partners, stores, and local community. Notably, in the quarter, as Laxman shared, we opened the Coffee Innovation Park, our largest roasting plant outside of the U.S., demonstrating our unwavering commitment to our business in China. Operating margin for the International segment was 15.2% in Q4, expanding 70 basis points over the prior year, driven by sales leverage partially offset by digital investments.
We are pleased with our margin, reflecting the strength of business and enabling us to unlock capital to reinvest back in the business to fuel growth. Shifting to channel development. The segment's revenue was $486 million in Q4, essentially flat over the prior year, in line with our expectations. This was driven largely by at-home coffee, while probably holding the number one share position in the category at 16.1%, as well as the number one position in ready-to-drink achieving our highest share in two years. Our fall launch in conjunction with our North America coffee partnership drove our performance resulting in the segment growing better than overall category. Segment's operating margin was 55.8% in Q4, up an impressive 520 basis points from prior year and exceeding our expectations, driven by ongoing strong performance in the North America coffee partnership.
This segment continues to be highly margin accretive to our business and we're excited by the significant profit growth we're seeing in this channel. Shifting to our fiscal year 2024 guidance. Our guidance accounts for the macroeconomic and geopolitical environment as we see it today. Additionally, our guidance does not include any impact from foreign currency translation. First, let me start with the foundation of our growth, comparable sales growth. We expect fiscal year 2024 global comp growth to be 5% to 7%. While this is a change from our prior year global comp guidance of 7% to 9%, our comp range, coupled with our strong new store performance and momentum in our licensed business, drives a broader and more durable growth narrative supporting our attractive consolidated revenue growth.
For color, our fiscal year 2024 U.S. comparable store sales are expected to grow in the range of 5% to 7% as our business continues to have substantial headroom spurred by our leading innovation and technology, increasing customer loyalty and strong digital engagement as evidenced by the U.S. finishing fiscal year 2023 with strong performance of 9% comp growth. Another positive driver of our fiscal year 2024, 5% to 7% global comp growth is the performance in China, with comp expected to be in the range of 4% to 6% in Q2 through Q4, with a higher comp in Q1 as we lap prior year mobility restrictions. Such growth is fueled by our increasing digital capability, coupled with the local opportunity we see stemming from our relevant product innovation and purpose-designed stores, which are resonating with customers and driving engagement.
Our new store performance, combined with our strong China comp guidance, will give another year of double-digit revenue growth in the market, delivering on our momentum. Next, in thinking of our global new store growth, we expect global new store growth of approximately 7%, with approximately 75% of the growth still coming from outside of the U.S. as we continue to focus on our strategic global expansion, reaching nearly 41,000 stores globally by the end of fiscal year 2024. We -- of the approximate 7% growth, we expect our U.S. store count to grow by approximately 4% in fiscal year 2024, driven by our dynamic portfolio format, expanding our white space opportunity. We anticipate China will continue its rapid growth of approximately 13% in fiscal year 2024, given the attractive unit economics of our new stores.
We expect the remainder of our growth will be driven by the robust development in our other markets around the world that are leveraging the strength of our brand internationally and becoming more global. The combination of our global comp growth that I discussed a few minutes ago and our global store growth as well as continued growth in our licensed business, sets the foundation of our consolidated revenue growth. For fiscal year 2024, we expect our consolidated revenue growth to continue in the range of 10% to 12%, albeit at the low end of the range. This does not include any impact from foreign currency translation. We expect the foundational elements of our growth will be partially offset by an expected high single-digit revenue decline in our Channel Development segment largely related to the sale of Seattle's Best Coffee and broad optimization.
Absent those impacts, Channel Development revenue is expected to be flat year-over-year. We're proud to reinforce yet another year of double-digit revenue growth at the low end of a 10% to 12% range, building on a very strong fiscal year 2023 performance, all of which reinforces the confidence we have in our business and opportunities we see ahead. Shifting to operating margin. We expect progressive margin expansion in fiscal year 2024 as we continue to deliver efficiency both in and out of our stores, inclusive of approximately $1 billion in incremental high-return, growth-oriented investments balanced across our partners, stores, and customers across wages, new store equipment and enhancements, digital and product innovation, and supply chain modernization.
We will also continue our focus and discipline in unlocking strategic efficiencies across our business, and have multiple work streams underway to support approximately $1 billion in incremental leverage opportunity. These efficiencies, paired with sales leverage and strategic pricing, support continued investment in our business even as we expand margin and grow earnings over the long term. We will provide greater detail around our efficiency work streams in our strategy meeting later today. In addition, we expect our Channel Development segment to continue to be accretive to overall operating margin, with operating margin expanding to the high 40% to low 50% range from their favorable portfolio mix. Moving on to capital allocation. Through a very disciplined approach to capital allocation, our return on invested capital in fiscal year 2023 approach 25%, a meaningful improvement from prior year.
Equally important, we expect this upward trajectory to continue in fiscal year 2024. We expect our CapEx in fiscal year 2024 to be approximately $3 billion, with over 85% of our CapEx directly invested in our global store portfolio. We also expect to continue our stable dividend approach and remain committed to targeting an approximate 50% dividend payout ratio, displaying our confidence in our long-term growth and attracting a broad investor base, which benefits all stakeholders. As one of the highest dividend payers among high-growth companies, we are proud to have recently commemorated our 13th consecutive annual dividend increase with a CAGR of 20% over such period. Our capital allocation strategy has positioned us well to be able to continue significant business investments while retaining financial flexibility and maintaining our BBB+ investment-grade credit rating.
Regarding tax rates in fiscal year 2024, we expect our effective GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates to be in the mid-20% range. This is higher than our fiscal year 2023 GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates of 23.6%, which benefited from certain discrete tax items that are not expected to reoccur in fiscal year 2024. In closing my guidance comments, we continue to expect fiscal year 2024 GAAP and non-GAAP EPS growth to be in the 15% to 20% range. Proudly, we expect our double-digit EPS growth will be a result of a balanced plan, compromised of both revenue growth and margin expansion. Overall, we are pleased with the durability of our business and strong foundation fiscal 2023 has set for fiscal year 2024, and our guidance is a product of our confidence in our continued long-term growth.
We look forward to telling you more about our limitless opportunities in our afternoon strategy meeting. Before I close and turn it over to Tiffany, I want to thank the more than 450,000 partners who wear the green apron across the globe for their tireless contributions to create the experience that makes Starbucks such a meaningful place for all of our customers. It's because of you that I have such great confidence in the opportunity ahead. Tiffany?
Tiffany Willis: Thank you, Rachel. At this time, we'll proceed with our normal Q&A session, which will last until the top of the hour. Just for clarification, this Q&A session shall be focused on our fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2023 results and fiscal year 2024 guidance. Questions on topics outside of either of those should be held into our afternoon strategy meeting. Kevin, please open the call for questions.
See also 12 Stocks that Could Skyrocket According to Investment Newsletters and Billionaire Paul Singer’s Top 10 Holdings and Recent Moves.
To continue reading the Q&A session, please click here.