url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-starbucks-sbux-top-growth-144506128.html
title:Why_Starbucks_SBUX_is_a_Top_Growth_Stock_for_the_LongTerm
For new and old investors, taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals.
While you may have an investing style you rely on, finding great stocks is made easier with the Zacks Style Scores. These are complementary indicators that rate stocks based on value, growth, and/or momentum characteristics.
Why This 1 Growth Stock Should Be On Your Watchlist
Growth investors build their portfolios around companies that are financially strong and have a bright future, and the Growth Style Score helps take projected and historical earnings, sales, and cash flow into account to uncover stocks that will see long-term, sustainable growth.
Starbucks (SBUX)
Founded in 1985 and based in Seattle, WA, Starbucks Corporation is the leading roaster and retailer of specialty coffee globally. In addition to fresh, rich-brewed coffees, Starbucks’ offerings include many complimentary food items and a selection of premium teas and other beverages, sold mainly through the company’s retail stores. The company’s popular brands include Starbucks coffee, Teavana tea, Seattle's Best Coffee, La Boulange bakery products and Evolution Fresh juices.
SBUX sits at a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), holds a Growth Style Score of B, and has a VGM Score of B. Earnings and sales are forecasted to increase 16.6% and 0.4% year-over-year, respectively.
Three analysts revised their earnings estimate higher in the last 60 days for fiscal 2023, while the Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0 to $3.45 per share. SBUX also boasts an average earnings surprise of 7.3%.
Starbucks is also cash rich. The company has generated cash flow growth of 3.6%, and is expected to report cash flow expansion of 12.4% in 2023.
Investors should take the time to consider SBUX for their portfolios due to its solid Zacks Rank rating, notable growth metrics, and impressive Growth and VGM Style Scores.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Starbucks Corporation (SBUX) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research
Related Quotes