url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/heres-why-ross-stores-rost-135007299.html
title:Heres_Why_Ross_Stores_ROST_is_a_Strong_Momentum_Stock
It doesn't matter your age or experience: taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals for all investors.
Many investors also have a go-to methodology that helps guide their buy and sell decisions. One way to find winning stocks based on your preferred way of investing is to use the Zacks Style Scores, which are indicators that rate stocks based on three widely-followed investing types: value, growth, and momentum.
Is This 1 Momentum Stock a Screaming Buy Right Now?
For momentum investors, upward or downward trends in a stock's price or earnings outlook take precedent, so they'll want to zero in on the Momentum Style Score. This Score can pinpoint good times to build a position in a stock, using factors like one-week price change and the monthly percentage change in earnings estimates.
Ross Stores (ROST)
Based in Dublin, CA, Ross Stores Inc. operates as an off-price retailer of apparel and home accessories, primarily in the United States. The company operates its stores under the Ross Dress for Less (Ross) and dd’s DISCOUNTS names. The company’s stores are located mostly in community and neighborhood shopping centers in heavily populated urban and suburban areas.
ROST sits at a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy), holds a Momentum Style Score of A, and has a VGM Score of A. The stock is down 1.7% and up 2.2% over the past one-week and four-week period, respectively, and Ross Stores has gained 20.8% in the last one-year period as well. Additionally, an average of 2,180,229.25 shares were traded over the last 20 trading sessions.
Momentum investors also pay close attention to a company's earnings. For ROST, two analysts revised their earnings estimate upwards in the last 60 days, and the Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0.04 to $5.23 per share for 2024. ROST boasts an average earnings surprise of 11.4%.
ROST should be on investors' short list because of its impressive earnings fundamentals, a good Zacks Rank, and strong Momentum and VGM Style Scores.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Ross Stores, Inc. (ROST) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research