url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/fed-decision-mondelez-reports-airbnb-162551562.html
title:Fed_decision_Mondelez_reports_Airbnb_earnings_3_things_to_watch
Investing.com -- Stocks rallied to close out the month, though it was still ugly for the indexes.
Despite rising on Monday and Tuesday, the S&P and Dow ended October down for the month, as did Nasdaq.
Investors have been worried about the effects of higher for longer rates, something Federal Reserve officials have said is necessary to complete its mission of getting inflation back to their 2% target. The Fed is expected to leave interest rates steady at the conclusion of its meeting on Wednesday, but could suggest another interest rate increase could be coming later this year.
Friday's jobs report will give the Fed and investors a new reading on the state of the still-tight labor market. Job openings data expected on Wednesday is expected to show a similar amount of openings as the month earlier, and analysts expect Friday's report will show lower job growth than in September. Still, unemployment remains at multiyear lows and economists are worried about the effect of rising wages on inflation.
Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) earnings highlight this week of earnings, though many more S&P 500 company reports are also expected. Analysts have been listening to what executives say about their outlook for consumer spending and business demand for the remainder of the year.
Here are three things that could affect markets tomorrow:
1. Mondelez earnings
Mondelez International Inc (NASDAQ:MDLZ), the maker of Oreo cookies and other packaged foods, is expected to report earnings per share of 78 cents on revenue of $8.8 billion.
2. Airbnb reports
Home and vacation share company Airbnb Inc (NASDAQ:ABNB) is expected to report earnings of $2.12 a share on revenue of $3.4 billion. It could provide investors with a reading on the state of travel demand after weaker than expected earnings from JetBlue on Tuesday.
3. Qualcomm earnings
Chip maker Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ:QCOM) is expected to report earnings of $1.91 a share on revenue of $8.5 billion.
Related Articles
Fed decision, Mondelez reports, Airbnb earnings: 3 things to watch
Ternium posts 77% quarterly income boost as steel shipments jump
RBC injected about $3 billion this year into US unit to boost capital