url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/cadence-design-systems-insiders-sold-140021331.html
title:Cadence_Design_Systems_Insiders_Sold_US73m_Of_Shares_Suggesting_Hesitancy
Over the past year, many Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ:CDNS) insiders sold a significant stake in the company which may have piqued investors' interest. When evaluating insider transactions, knowing whether insiders are buying versus if they selling is usually more beneficial, as the latter can be open to many interpretations. However, if numerous insiders are selling, shareholders should investigate more.
While insider transactions are not the most important thing when it comes to long-term investing, we would consider it foolish to ignore insider transactions altogether.
 See our latest analysis for Cadence Design Systems 
In the last twelve months, the biggest single sale by an insider was when the Independent Director, Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli, sold US$2.0m worth of shares at a price of US$230 per share. That means that an insider was selling shares at slightly below the current price (US$250). We generally consider it a negative if insiders have been selling, especially if they did so below the current price, because it implies that they considered a lower price to be reasonable. While insider selling is not a positive sign, we can't be sure if it does mean insiders think the shares are fully valued, so it's only a weak sign. This single sale was just 11% of Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli's stake.
Insiders in Cadence Design Systems didn't buy any shares in the last year. The chart below shows insider transactions (by companies and individuals) over the last year. If you click on the chart, you can see all the individual transactions, including the share price, individual, and the date!
If you like to buy stocks that insiders are buying, rather than selling, then you might just love this free list of companies. (Hint: insiders have been buying them).
The last quarter saw substantial insider selling of Cadence Design Systems shares. In total, Independent Director Alberto Sangiovanni-Vincentelli sold US$3.0m worth of shares in that time, and we didn't record any purchases whatsoever. This may suggest that some insiders think that the shares are not cheap.
For a common shareholder, it is worth checking how many shares are held by company insiders. We usually like to see fairly high levels of insider ownership. It's great to see that Cadence Design Systems insiders own 0.9% of the company, worth about US$632m. This kind of significant ownership by insiders does generally increase the chance that the company is run in the interest of all shareholders.
An insider hasn't bought Cadence Design Systems stock in the last three months, but there was some selling. And even if we look at the last year, we didn't see any purchases. But it is good to see that Cadence Design Systems is growing earnings. While insiders do own a lot of shares in the company (which is good), our analysis of their transactions doesn't make us feel confident about the company. So these insider transactions can help us build a thesis about the stock, but it's also worthwhile knowing the risks facing this company. You'd be interested to know, that we found 1 warning sign for Cadence Design Systems and we suggest you have a look.
Of course Cadence Design Systems may not be the best stock to buy. So you may wish to see this free collection of high quality companies.
For the purposes of this article, insiders are those individuals who report their transactions to the relevant regulatory body. We currently account for open market transactions and private dispositions of direct interests only, but not derivative transactions or indirect interests.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.