url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/investors-shouldnt-overlook-favourable-returns-110016297.html
title:Investors_Shouldnt_Overlook_The_Favourable_Returns_On_Capital_At_Lam_Research_NASDAQLRCX
There are a few key trends to look for if we want to identify the next multi-bagger. Firstly, we'll want to see a proven return on capital employed (ROCE) that is increasing, and secondly, an expanding base of capital employed. Put simply, these types of businesses are compounding machines, meaning they are continually reinvesting their earnings at ever-higher rates of return. With that in mind, the ROCE of Lam Research (NASDAQ:LRCX) looks attractive right now, so lets see what the trend of returns can tell us.
For those who don't know, ROCE is a measure of a company's yearly pre-tax profit (its return), relative to the capital employed in the business. Analysts use this formula to calculate it for Lam Research:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) รท (Total Assets - Current Liabilities)
0.32 = US$4.6b รท (US$19b - US$4.2b) (Based on the trailing twelve months to September 2023).
Thus, Lam Research has an ROCE of 32%.  In absolute terms that's a great return and it's even better than the Semiconductor industry average of 12%.
 Check out our latest analysis for Lam Research 
In the above chart we have measured Lam Research's prior ROCE against its prior performance, but the future is arguably more important. If you'd like to see what analysts are forecasting going forward, you should check out our free report for Lam Research.
In terms of Lam Research's history of ROCE, it's quite impressive. Over the past five years, ROCE has remained relatively flat at around 32% and the business has deployed 76% more capital into its operations. Now considering ROCE is an attractive 32%, this combination is actually pretty appealing because it means the business can consistently put money to work and generate these high returns. You'll see this when looking at well operated businesses or favorable business models.
In the end, the company has proven it can reinvest it's capital at high rates of returns, which you'll remember is a trait of a multi-bagger. On top of that, the stock has rewarded shareholders with a remarkable 315% return to those who've held over the last five years. So while the positive underlying trends may be accounted for by investors, we still think this stock is worth looking into further.
If you'd like to know about the risks facing Lam Research, we've discovered 1 warning sign that you should be aware of.
If you want to search for more stocks that have been earning high returns, check out this free list of stocks with solid balance sheets that are also earning high returns on equity.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.