url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/walgreens-boots-alliance-nasdaq-wba-100146678.html
title:Walgreens_Boots_Alliance_NASDAQWBA_Has_Affirmed_Its_Dividend_Of_048
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. (NASDAQ:WBA) will pay a dividend of $0.48 on the 12th of December. This means the annual payment is 9.1% of the current stock price, which is above the average for the industry.
 Check out our latest analysis for Walgreens Boots Alliance 
While it is great to have a strong dividend yield, we should also consider whether the payment is sustainable. Walgreens Boots Alliance is unprofitable despite paying a dividend, and it is paying out 1,176% of its free cash flow. This is quite a strong warning sign that the dividend may not be sustainable.
According to analysts, EPS should be several times higher next year. If the dividend extends its recent trend, estimates say the dividend could reach 48%, which we would be comfortable to see continuing.
The company has a sustained record of paying dividends with very little fluctuation. Since 2013, the annual payment back then was $1.10, compared to the most recent full-year payment of $1.92. This works out to be a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of approximately 5.7% a year over that time. Dividends have grown at a reasonable rate over this period, and without any major cuts in the payment over time, we think this is an attractive combination as it provides a nice boost to shareholder returns.
Some investors will be chomping at the bit to buy some of the company's stock based on its dividend history. However, initial appearances might be deceiving. Over the past five years, it looks as though Walgreens Boots Alliance's EPS has declined at around 34% a year. Such rapid declines definitely have the potential to constrain dividend payments if the trend continues into the future. However, the next year is actually looking up, with earnings set to rise. We would just wait until it becomes a pattern before getting too excited.
Overall, it's nice to see a consistent dividend payment, but we think that longer term, the current level of payment might be unsustainable. In the past the payments have been stable, but we think the company is paying out too much for this to continue for the long term. We don't think Walgreens Boots Alliance is a great stock to add to your portfolio if income is your focus.
Investors generally tend to favour companies with a consistent, stable dividend policy as opposed to those operating an irregular one. Meanwhile, despite the importance of dividend payments, they are not the only factors our readers should know when assessing a company. As an example, we've identified 1 warning sign for Walgreens Boots Alliance that you should be aware of before investing. If you are a dividend investor, you might also want to look at our curated list of high yield dividend stocks.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.