url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/walgreens-backed-clinic-chain-slash-200214937.html
title:WalgreensBacked_Clinic_Chain_to_Slash_Bonuses_Amid_Cost_Cuts
(Bloomberg) -- Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc.’s chain of medical clinics is trimming employee bonuses and retirement fund matches amid a broader push to reduce expenses at the drugstore giant.
Most Read from Bloomberg
Immigrants Are Leaving Canada at Faster Pace, Study Shows
Intuit Is Closing Personal-Finance App Mint, Shifts Users to Credit Karma
S&P 500 Set for Biggest Gain Since May Before Jobs: Markets Wrap
Jamie Dimon Warns Texas to Stop Pushing Anti-Business Laws
Israel Latest: Troops Encircle Gaza City as Death Toll Climbs
VillageMD, the primary-care provider majority-owned by Walgreens, won’t give bonuses to most employees for this year, although front-line clinic staff who see patients will receive bonuses “reduced from historical amounts,” according to a memo to staff viewed by Bloomberg. The unit plans to resume bonuses in 2024 as finances improve, VillageMD Chief Executive Officer Tim Barry said in the memo dated Nov. 1.
A spokesperson for Walgreens declined to comment and referred questions to VillageMD. Representatives of VillageMD didn’t respond to requests for comment.
Walgreens is in cost-cutting mode and has brought on new CEO Tim Wentworth to attempt to turn around the business. It’s seeking $1 billion in savings in an effort to shore up its finances. While it’s invested heavily in building out health-care assets in recent years, the focus has shifted to streamlining those operations.
The company first invested in VillageMD in 2020 and took a majority stake the following year. In 2022, VillageMD acquired Summit Health-CityMD in an $8.9 billion deal. At one point, it aimed to have 1,000 clinics in Walgreens stores by 2027.
Evaluating Footprint
VillageMD has 680 clinics and employs more than 20,000 people, according to its website. Walgreens said Oct. 12 that it’s evaluating VillageMD’s footprint and plans to exit five markets and about 60 clinics in the coming fiscal year.
Walgreens’ US health-care segment, which includes VillageMD, posted an adjusted operating loss of $566 million in the 12 months through Aug. 31 on sales of about $6.6 billion. Walgreens aims to have it roughly break even before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in fiscal 2024.
VillageMD’s contributions to employee retirement funds will become a yearly “discretionary match” based on business performance, according to the memo. The company previously matched 4% of contributions for each pay period. VillageMD is also cutting other expenses including for travel, outside vendors and holiday parties, according to the memo.
Walgreens shares have lost about 42% of their value since the year began.
Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek
The US Housing Market Has Become an Impossible Mess
World’s Safest Market Becomes a Magnet for Big Investors
These Five Countries Are Key Economic ‘Connectors’ in a Fragmenting World
Foxconn Makes Your iPhone. Now It Wants to Make Your Electric Car
Shipping Startup Flexport Is in Crisis Mode Heading Into the Holiday Season
©2023 Bloomberg L.P.