url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/asia-stocks-rise-apple-sales-224225257.html
title:Asia_Stocks_Rise_Apple_Sales_Weigh_US_Futures_Markets_Wrap
(Bloomberg) -- Shares in Asia were set to gain Friday after further advances for US stocks and long-dated Treasuries, as investors adjusted to the prospect the Federal Reserve may be done with rate hikes.
Most Read from Bloomberg
Intuit Is Closing Personal-Finance App Mint, Shifts Users to Credit Karma
Immigrants Are Leaving Canada at Faster Pace, Study Shows
S&P 500 Rises Almost 2%; Apple Down in Late Hours: Markets Wrap
Israel Latest: Troops Encircle Gaza City as Death Toll Climbs
Harvard, Yale Warned by Top Law Firms About Antisemitism
Contracts for share futures in Australia and Hong Kong rose, while the Golden Dragon index of US-listed Chinese companies climbed 2% Thursday. The S&P 500 advanced 1.9%, its biggest one-day gain since April, and placed the benchmark on track for its best week since November last year. Markets in Japan are closed Friday for a holiday.
US futures ticked lower in early Friday trading following an a decline in after-hours trading in New York for Apple Inc. The iPhone maker reported a fourth quarterly revenue decline as it grapples with a sluggish Mac market and shaky demand in China.
Services industry data for China, set for release Friday, is anticipated to show further expansion. Elsewhere in the region, retail sales data for Australia and Singapore will be released as will purchasing manager index data for India.
Long-dated Treasury yields fell Thursday. The 10-year benchmark slipped nearly eight basis points. Australian and New Zealand yields echoed the decline early Friday. Trading in Treasuries in Asia will be closed given the holiday in Japan.
Despite the rally in US government debt since Wednesday’s Federal Reserve meeting, some investors have cautioned that yields could well climb again.
Hedge fund K2 Asset Management is predicting that benchmark 10-year Treasury yields will rise back to 5% — from 4.66% — while Franklin Templeton says they could peak at 5.25% — a level last seen in 2007. Barclays Plc co-head of global markets Stephen Dainton said it is “very unlikely” the Fed is done tightening policy.
Continuing US jobless claims rose for a sixth straight week, indicating those losing their jobs are starting to have more trouble finding new ones. That data comes ahead of nonfarm payrolls figures due later Friday.
“Friday payrolls will be critical,” said Priya Misra, portfolio manager at JPMorgan Asset Management. “If we get a weak report, rates will continue their move lower, but financial conditions may not loosen further since a recession may look more imminent. A strong report and then the market will watch the Fed nervously to see if they will react.”
Oil edged higher in early Friday trading after a Thursday rally. West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, traded above $82 after advancing 2.5% Thursday. Gold was steady.
Key events this week:
China Caixin services PMI, Friday
Eurozone unemployment, Friday
US unemployment, nonfarm payrolls, Friday
Canada employment report, Friday
Some of the main moves in markets:
Stocks
S&P 500 futures fell 0.1% as of 7:40 a.m. Tokyo time. The S&P 500 rose 1.9%
Nasdaq 100 futures fell 0.3%. The Nasdaq 100 rose 1.7%
Hang Seng futures rose 0.9%
S&P/ASX 200 futures rose 1.2%
Currencies
The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index was little changed
The euro was little changed at $1.0620
The Japanese yen was unchanged at 150.45 per dollar
The offshore yuan was little changed at 7.3274 per dollar
The Australian dollar was little changed at $0.6432
Cryptocurrencies
Bitcoin fell 0.1% to $34,873.2
Ether fell 0.3% to $1,800.24
Bonds
Australia’s 10-year yield declined eight basis points to 4.71%
Commodities
West Texas Intermediate crude rose 0.2% to $82.62 a barrel
Spot gold was little changed
This story was produced with the assistance of Bloomberg Automation.
Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek
The US Housing Market Has Become an Impossible Mess
World’s Safest Market Becomes a Magnet for Big Investors
These Five Countries Are Key Economic ‘Connectors’ in a Fragmenting World
Foxconn Makes Your iPhone. Now It Wants to Make Your Electric Car
Shipping Startup Flexport Is in Crisis Mode Heading Into the Holiday Season
©2023 Bloomberg L.P.