url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/now-time-look-buying-autodesk-110051909.html
title:Is_Now_The_Time_To_Look_At_Buying_Autodesk_Inc_NASDAQADSK
Autodesk, Inc. (NASDAQ:ADSK) received a lot of attention from a substantial price movement on the NASDAQGS over the last few months, increasing to US$222 at one point, and dropping to the lows of US$199. Some share price movements can give investors a better opportunity to enter into the stock, and potentially buy at a lower price. A question to answer is whether Autodesk's current trading price of US$200 reflective of the actual value of the large-cap? Or is it currently undervalued, providing us with the opportunity to buy? Let’s take a look at Autodesk’s outlook and value based on the most recent financial data to see if there are any catalysts for a price change.
 Check out our latest analysis for Autodesk 
Good news, investors! Autodesk is still a bargain right now. My valuation model shows that the intrinsic value for the stock is $273.17, but it is currently trading at US$200 on the share market, meaning that there is still an opportunity to buy now. Although, there may be another chance to buy again in the future. This is because Autodesk’s beta (a measure of share price volatility) is high, meaning its price movements will be exaggerated relative to the rest of the market. If the market is bearish, the company's shares will likely fall by more than the rest of the market, providing a prime buying opportunity.
Future outlook is an important aspect when you’re looking at buying a stock, especially if you are an investor looking for growth in your portfolio. Buying a great company with a robust outlook at a cheap price is always a good investment, so let’s also take a look at the company's future expectations. With profit expected to grow by 87% over the next couple of years, the future seems bright for Autodesk. It looks like higher cash flow is on the cards for the stock, which should feed into a higher share valuation.
Are you a shareholder? Since ADSK is currently undervalued, it may be a great time to increase your holdings in the stock. With a positive outlook on the horizon, it seems like this growth has not yet been fully factored into the share price. However, there are also other factors such as capital structure to consider, which could explain the current undervaluation.
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping an eye on ADSK for a while, now might be the time to make a leap. Its buoyant future outlook isn’t fully reflected in the current share price yet, which means it’s not too late to buy ADSK. But before you make any investment decisions, consider other factors such as the strength of its balance sheet, in order to make a well-informed investment decision.
If you want to dive deeper into Autodesk, you'd also look into what risks it is currently facing. Every company has risks, and we've spotted 1 warning sign for Autodesk you should know about.
If you are no longer interested in Autodesk, you can use our free platform to see our list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.