url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/idexx-laboratories-inc-nasdaq-idxx-225542909.html
title:IDEXX_Laboratories_Inc_NASDAQIDXX_Q3_2023_Earnings_Call_Transcript
IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (NASDAQ:IDXX) Q3 2023 Earnings Call Transcript November 1, 2023
IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. beats earnings expectations. Reported EPS is $2.53, expectations were $2.37.
Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the IDEXX Laboratories Third Quarter 2023 Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. Participating in the call this morning are Jay Mazelsky, President and Chief Executive Officer; Brian McKeon, Chief Financial Officer; and John Ravis, Vice President, Investor Relations. IDEXX would like to preface the discussion today with a caution regarding forward-looking statements. Listeners are reminded that our discussion during the call will include forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today. Additional information regarding these risks and uncertainties is available under the forward-looking statements noticed in our press release issued this morning, as well as in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which can be obtained from the SEC or by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website, idexx.com.
During this call, we will be discussing certain financial measures, not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable measures are provided in our earnings release, which may also be found by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website. In reviewing our third quarter 2023 results, please note all references to growth, organic growth, and comparable growth refer to growth compared to the equivalent period in 2022, unless otherwise noted. [Operator Instructions]. Today's prepared remarks will be posted to the Investor Relations section of idexx.com after the earnings conference call concludes. I would now like to turn the call over to Brian McKeon.
Photo by Reba Spike on Unsplash
Brian McKeon: Good morning and welcome to our third quarter earnings call. Today I'll take you through our Q3 results and review our updated financial outlook for 2023. In terms of highlights, IDEXX achieved solid revenue growth and strong profit gains in the third quarter. Overall revenues increased 8% organically, supported by 9% organic growth in CAG diagnostic recurring revenues net of approximately 50 basis points of negative impact from fewer equivalent selling days. Organic revenue growth was supported by sustained benefits from IDEXX execution drivers including continued strong premium instrument replacements, solid new business gains, high levels of customer retention and high growth in recurring veterinary software revenues.
Overall CAG diagnostics recurring revenue gains in the quarter were moderated by a 2% same-store decline in US clinical business. This was below our expectations for relatively flattening US clinic visit trends, reflecting ongoing capacity management challenges at US clinics and relatively softer wellness visit levels. Operating profit results were ahead of our expectations supported by gross margin gains and operating expense leverage, which enabled EPS delivery of $2.53 per share, up 18% as reported and 16% on a comparable basis. Based on our strong financial results in the quarter, we're updating our full year EPS outlook aligned with the higher end of our previous guidance range. This reflects expectations for strong comparable operating margin gains this year.
We're also updating our full year revenue guidance ranges to incorporate our Q3 results and recent sector trends, as well as to reflect the recent strengthening of the US dollar. We will review our updated guidance detail later in my comments. Let's begin with the review of our third quarter results. Third quarter organic revenue growth of 8% was driven by 8% organic CAG gains and 7% organic growth in our Water business. Overall, organic revenue growth was moderated by 2% organic growth in our LPD business and approximately $3 million of headwind related to lower opti medical revenues including effects from the wind down of our human COVID testing business. CAG diagnostic recurring revenue increased 9% organically, reflecting 8.3% gains in the US and 10.3% growth in international regions net of a 0.5% global growth headwind from equivalent days effects.
See also 15 Vacations for Seniors on a Budget and 12 Best Dividend Stocks Under $20.
To continue reading the Q&A session, please click here.