url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/idexx-laboratories-insiders-sold-us-110019292.html
title:IDEXX_Laboratories_Insiders_Sold_US45m_Of_Shares_Suggesting_Hesitancy
Over the past year, many IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (NASDAQ:IDXX) insiders sold a significant stake in the company which may have piqued investors' interest. Knowing whether insiders are buying is usually more helpful when evaluating insider transactions, as insider selling can have various explanations. However, when multiple insiders sell stock over a specific duration, shareholders should take notice as that could possibly be a red flag.
While we would never suggest that investors should base their decisions solely on what the directors of a company have been doing, we do think it is perfectly logical to keep tabs on what insiders are doing.
 See our latest analysis for IDEXX Laboratories 
In the last twelve months, the biggest single sale by an insider was when the Executive VP & Chief Commercial Officer, James Polewaczyk, sold US$3.1m worth of shares at a price of US$511 per share. We generally don't like to see insider selling, but the lower the sale price, the more it concerns us. It's of some comfort that this sale was conducted at a price well above the current share price, which is US$423. So it may not shed much light on insider confidence at current levels.
IDEXX Laboratories insiders didn't buy any shares over the last year. You can see a visual depiction of insider transactions (by companies and individuals) over the last 12 months, below. If you click on the chart, you can see all the individual transactions, including the share price, individual, and the date!
For those who like to find winning investments this free list of growing companies with recent insider purchasing, could be just the ticket.
The last quarter saw substantial insider selling of IDEXX Laboratories shares. In total, Executive VP & Chief Commercial Officer James Polewaczyk dumped US$3.1m worth of shares in that time, and we didn't record any purchases whatsoever. Overall this makes us a bit cautious, but it's not the be all and end all.
For a common shareholder, it is worth checking how many shares are held by company insiders. Usually, the higher the insider ownership, the more likely it is that insiders will be incentivised to build the company for the long term. IDEXX Laboratories insiders own 1.0% of the company, currently worth about US$345m based on the recent share price. Most shareholders would be happy to see this sort of insider ownership, since it suggests that management incentives are well aligned with other shareholders.
An insider hasn't bought IDEXX Laboratories stock in the last three months, but there was some selling. And there weren't any purchases to give us comfort, over the last year. On the plus side, IDEXX Laboratories makes money, and is growing profits. It is good to see high insider ownership, but the insider selling leaves us cautious. So while it's helpful to know what insiders are doing in terms of buying or selling, it's also helpful to know the risks that a particular company is facing. At Simply Wall St, we found 2 warning signs for IDEXX Laboratories that deserve your attention before buying any shares.
But note: IDEXX Laboratories may not be the best stock to buy. So take a peek at this free list of interesting companies with high ROE and low debt.
For the purposes of this article, insiders are those individuals who report their transactions to the relevant regulatory body. We currently account for open market transactions and private dispositions of direct interests only, but not derivative transactions or indirect interests.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.
Related Quotes