url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/idexx-laboratories-nasdaq-idxx-five-110055422.html
title:IDEXX_Laboratories_NASDAQIDXX_fiveyear_earnings_growth_trails_the_15_YoY_shareholder_returns
It hasn't been the best quarter for IDEXX Laboratories, Inc. (NASDAQ:IDXX) shareholders, since the share price has fallen 17% in that time. Looking further back, the stock has generated good profits over five years. After all, the share price is up a market-beating 99% in that time.
After a strong gain in the past week, it's worth seeing if longer term returns have been driven by improving fundamentals.
 See our latest analysis for IDEXX Laboratories 
To paraphrase Benjamin Graham: Over the short term the market is a voting machine, but over the long term it's a weighing machine. One flawed but reasonable way to assess how sentiment around a company has changed is to compare the earnings per share (EPS) with the share price.
During five years of share price growth, IDEXX Laboratories achieved compound earnings per share (EPS) growth of 22% per year. The EPS growth is more impressive than the yearly share price gain of 15% over the same period. So one could conclude that the broader market has become more cautious towards the stock.
You can see below how EPS has changed over time (discover the exact values by clicking on the image).
We know that IDEXX Laboratories has improved its bottom line lately, but is it going to grow revenue? Check if analysts think IDEXX Laboratories will grow revenue in the future.
It's good to see that IDEXX Laboratories has rewarded shareholders with a total shareholder return of 33% in the last twelve months. Since the one-year TSR is better than the five-year TSR (the latter coming in at 15% per year), it would seem that the stock's performance has improved in recent times. Given the share price momentum remains strong, it might be worth taking a closer look at the stock, lest you miss an opportunity. I find it very interesting to look at share price over the long term as a proxy for business performance. But to truly gain insight, we need to consider other information, too. For example, we've discovered 2 warning signs for IDEXX Laboratories that you should be aware of before investing here.
If you are like me, then you will not want to miss this free list of growing companies that insiders are buying.
Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on American exchanges.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.