url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/deutsche-telekom-buy-back-much-130529549.html
title:Deutsche_Telekom_to_Buy_Back_as_Much_as_2_Billion_in_Shares
(Bloomberg) -- Deutsche Telekom AG laid out plans to spend as much as €2 billion ($2.1 billion) in 2024 buying back shares and raise its dividend.
Most Read from Bloomberg
Immigrants Are Leaving Canada at Faster Pace, Study Shows
Powell Hints Fed Is Done With Hikes in Pivot Cheered by Markets
Israel Latest: Biden Urges ‘Pause’ So Hostages Can Leave Gaza
US 30-Year Yields Fall 10 Basis Points on Fed Bets: Markets Wrap
Real Estate Industry Takes Fresh Hit With Verdict on Commissions
The dividend will increase to 77 cents per share for the 2023 fiscal year, up from 70 cents a year earlier, the German telecommunications company said in a statement on Thursday.
Chief Executive Officer Tim Hoettges said that the increase will repay investors who took a hit to the stock price when the company raised capital to increase its position in T-Mobile US Inc. two years ago. Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom has been steadily increasing its stake in the US division, which accounts for most of its revenue and is a significant growth driver.
Read More: Deutsche Telekom Edges Closer to T-Mobile Control After Deal
“Our shareholders trust us and have supported our strategy for many years in the expectation that we will wisely use the capital they provide to us,” Hoettges said in a statement. “At the time, they accepted the resulting dilution of their shareholding in Deutsche Telekom, which we will now make up for to some extent through the share buy-back,” he said.
T-Mobile’s growth has helped Deutsche Telekom outperform many of its European rivals, which have struggled with flagging share prices and stagnating sales.
The stock rose 2.5% to €21.28 in Frankfurt trading at 1:52 p.m. Deutsche Telekom shares had risen 11% this year through Wednesday. That compares to a slight decline in the European STOXX 600 Telecommunications Index.
The company will report its financial results on Nov. 9.
(Updates with CEO comments from third paragraph)
Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek
World’s Safest Market Becomes a Magnet for Big Investors
The US Housing Market Has Become an Impossible Mess
Web Summit Israel Mess Is No Surprise to Those Who Know Its Founder
Why Fewer Senior Executives Are Taking the Corporate Jet
Foxconn Makes Your iPhone. Now It Wants to Make Your Electric Car
©2023 Bloomberg L.P.