url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/zacks-analyst-blog-highlights-berkshire-101600765.html
title:The_Zacks_Analyst_Blog_Highlights_Berkshire_Hathaway_TMobile_US_Intel_3M_and_Yum
Chicago, IL – November 7, 2023 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include: Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK.A), T-Mobile US, Inc. TMUS, Intel Corporation INTC, 3M Company (MMM) and Yum! Brands, Inc. YUM.
The Zacks Research Daily presents the best research output of our analyst team. Today's Research Daily features new research reports on 16 major stocks, including Berkshire Hathaway Inc., T-Mobile US, Inc. and Intel Corporation. These research reports have been hand-picked from the roughly 70 reports published by our analyst team today.You can see all of today’s research reports here >>>Berkshire Hathaway shares have outperformed the Zacks Insurance - Property and Casualty industry over the year-to-date period (+13.9% vs. +10.6%). The company is one of the largest property and casualty insurance companies with numerous diverse business activities. A strong cash position supports earnings-accretive bolt-on buyouts and is indicative of its financial flexibility.Continued insurance business growth fuels increase in float, drive earnings and generates maximum return on equity. The non-insurance businesses have also been doing well in the last few years. The addition of Pilot Travel Centers (PTC) has strengthened its energy business. A sturdy capital level provides further impetus.However, exposure to catastrophe loss induces earnings volatility and also affects the property and casualty underwriting results of Berkshire. Huge capital expenditure remains a headwind for the company.(You can read the full research report on Berkshire Hathaway here >>>)Shares of T-Mobile US have outperformed the Zacks Wireless National industry over the year-to-date period (+5.4% vs. -2.3%). The company reached its full-year target of covering 300 million Americans with ultra-capacity 5G network two months before its deadline.Strong emphasis on developing advanced 5G use cases, such as roaming service on a 5G Standalone (SA) network will likely boost commercial prospect. Improvement in Postpaid average revenues per account and a record low postpaid churn rate are tailwinds.However, management’s strategy of introducing several promotional activities to gain customers is weighing on margins. High debt obligations and macroeconomic challenges remain headwinds. Declining Equipment revenues and weak demand for Prepaid services are impeding the revenue growth.(You can read the full research report on T-Mobile US here >>>)Shares of Intel have gained +24.4% over the past six months against the Zacks Semiconductor - General industry’s gain of +39.1%. The company is focusing on establishing an advanced semiconductor manufacturing ecosystem and has expanded global production capabilities under its IDM 2.0 (integrated device manufacturing) strategy.Market diversification and healthy momentum in data center business are tailwinds. The foundry services are increasingly gaining traction while the launch of glass substrates for advanced packaging of chips is another positive. It reported better-than-expected third-quarter 2023 results with the bottom and top line beating the respective Zacks Consensus Estimate.However, contraction in the total addressable market across all CPU market segments is a major headwind. Weak demand trends and sluggish recovery in China are hurting sales in Network and Edge Group. Macroeconomic challenges, inventory adjustments and intense market volatility are straining margins.(You can read the full research report on Intel here >>>)Other noteworthy reports we are featuring today include 3M Company and Yum! Brands, Inc.
Since 2000, our top stock-picking strategies have blown away the S&P's +6.2 average gain per year. Amazingly, they soared with average gains of +46.4%, +49.5% and +55.2% per year. Today you can access their live picks without cost or obligation.
See Stocks Free >>
Media Contact
Zacks Investment Research
800-767-3771 ext. 9339
support@zacks.com
https://www.zacks.com
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit https://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Intel Corporation (INTC) : Free Stock Analysis Report
3M Company (MMM) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Yum! Brands, Inc. (YUM) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK.A) : Free Stock Analysis Report
T-Mobile US, Inc. (TMUS) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research
Related Quotes