url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/t-mobile-expands-5g-network-140000517.html
title:TMobile_Expands_5G_Network_Coverage_in_Utah_Delivering_Supercharged_Speeds_Across_the_State
BELLEVUE, Wash., October 31, 2023--(BUSINESS WIRE)--T-Mobile (NASDAQ: TMUS) is taking its leading 5G network to the next level for hundreds of thousands of people in Utah. Today, the company announced that it’s upped its 5G game in the Beehive State over the last two years, expanding wireless coverage across a whopping 85,000 square miles to now cover nearly 99% of Utahns.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231030122272/en/
T-Mobile Expands 5G Network Coverage in Utah, Delivering Supercharged Speeds Across the State (Photo: Business Wire)
Since 2021, T-Mobile has been on a mission to enhance its network in Utah, adding more than 192 new cell towers and upgrading more than 621 existing ones to expand 5G coverage to more people in rural areas. But the Un-carrier isn’t stopping there, with plans for even more new installations and upgrades to existing towers throughout this year and 2024 to further boost capacity and data speeds.
With T-Mobile delivering the fastest median or average download speeds in Utah out of all wireless providers, according to third-party experts, Ookla and Opensignal, these upgrades will enable customers to experience the nation's largest, fastest and most awarded 5G network like never before. Enhanced data speeds means better performance when it comes to downloading videos, music, and large files without delay or interruption.
"Utahns are experiencing faster 5G speeds and better 5G coverage with the Un-carrier, thanks to collaborative partnerships with local and state agencies and entities," said Darryl Hawkins, Senior Vice President, Field Engineering at T-Mobile. "Our recent 5G network expansion across the state exemplifies our unwavering commitment to elevate wireless capabilities for individuals, families and businesses, underscoring our dedication to enhancing the overall customer experience."
Some of the counties in Utah with expanded coverage and capacity include:
Beaver
Box Elder
Cache
Carbon
Daggett
Davis
Duchesne
Emery
Garfield
Iron
Juab
Kane
Millard
Morgan
Rich
Salt Lake
Sanpete
Sevier
Summit
Tooele
Uintah
Utah
Wasatch
Washington
Wayne
Weber
A reliable internet connection is crucial for just about everyone and nearly 1 in 5 Utahns have only two or less choices for home broadband. In addition to network enhancements, T-Mobile is giving residents in Utah more access to high-speed broadband with T-Mobile 5G Home Internet. Today, 5G Home Internet from T-Mobile is available to 650,000 households across the state, providing an option to finally ditch traditional ISPs for fast, reliable home internet that’s easy to set up without annual contracts and hidden fees. Utah residents can learn more and check eligibility at www.t-mobile.com/home-internet, and Utah businesses can learn more about T-Mobile Business Internet by visiting www.t-mobile.com/business-internet.
Follow @TMobileNews on X, formerly known as Twitter, to stay up to date with the latest company news.
See 5G device, coverage, & access details at T-Mobile.com. Square mileage coverage values are based on outdoor coverage levels. Fastest: Based on median, overall combined 5G speeds in Utah according to analysis by Ookla® of Speedtest Intelligence® data 5G download speeds for Q3 2023. Ookla trademarks used under license and reprinted with permission. And based on Opensignal Awards - USA: Mobile Network Experience Report July 2023, based on independent analysis of mobile measurements recorded during the period March 16 – June 13, 2023 © 2023 Opensignal Limited. Fast & Reliable Home Internet: Based on T-Mobile analysis of eligible customer speed data reflecting consistent broadband speeds. Delivered via 5G cellular network; speeds vary due to factors affecting cellular networks. See T-Mobile.com/OpenInternet for additional details.
About T-Mobile
T-Mobile US, Inc. (NASDAQ: TMUS) is America’s supercharged Un-carrier, delivering an advanced 4G LTE and transformative nationwide 5G network that will offer reliable connectivity for all. T-Mobile’s customers benefit from its unmatched combination of value and quality, unwavering obsession with offering them the best possible service experience and undisputable drive for disruption that creates competition and innovation in wireless and beyond. Based in Bellevue, Wash., T-Mobile provides services through its subsidiaries and operates its flagship brands, T-Mobile, Metro by T-Mobile and Sprint. For more information please visit: https://www.t-mobile.com.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231030122272/en/
Contacts
T-Mobile US, Inc. Media RelationsMediaRelations@t-mobile.com