url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/18-best-vacations-retired-couples-143753437.html
title:18_Best_Vacations_for_Retired_Couples
This article takes a look at the 18 best vacations for retired couples. If you wish to skip our detailed analysis on the golden gap year, you may go to 5 Best Vacations for Retired Couples. 
If you think gap years are exclusive only to the youth, think again. According to research by Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. (NYSE:NCLH), 37% of Baby Boomers have decided to embark on a life-changing journey in their golden period. Tripadvisor, Inc. (NASDAQ:TRIP) reaffirms this by stating that 55% of people are planning longer trips and are willing to spend more on travel than they did in 2022.
Baby boomers, in particular, are looking forward to spending extended periods on vacation, also known as the "golden gap year." Experiencing the most substantial surge in both traveler numbers and the overall travel insurance market during Q1 and Q2 of 2022 compared to the previous year, the baby boomer generation is redefining the concept of adventure and exploration in their later years.
The reason this generational cohort is witnessing the largest travel resurgence is because, first, the number of baby boomers across the USA is significantly high. The US Census Bureau reports that there are an estimated 76.4 million baby boomers in the USA. More importantly, the older generation has more purchasing power than others. This generation is the wealthiest of all, holding 70% of the disposable income in the USA. They also spend over $548 billion a year across all categories and boast plenty more to spend on travel.
Such is the extent of travel hype amongst these seniors that travel experts expect a “grey tsunami” next year, representing a surge in baby boomer travel. Booking Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ:BKNG), one of the largest travel companies in the world, notes in their research that 78% of respondents travel because they believe that they are “alive” when they are on vacation. With more time, convenience, and money on their hands, the boomers are seeking more adventurous travel options than their predecessors, aiming to feel more “alive” and to make the most of their golden years.
Baby boomers have demonstrated an unprecedented adoption of technology, further fueling their travel enthusiasm. As many as 84% of this generation have booked some part of their travel accommodations online. Online reviews and forums have further made it easier for seniors to choose the right travel experiences for themselves. Booking Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ:BKNG) conducted a study involving 27,000 travelers across 33 countries and territories, unveiling various travel predictions for 2024. One notable forecast by the company is the rise of AI, as exemplified by Booking Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ:BKNG)'s AI Trip Planner App.
A third of baby boomers (38%) have already said to surrender to this application for making travel plans for the next year. Baby-boomer-aged travelers have their own set of travel-related resources available easily on the internet too. Blogs, such as those by Tripadvisor, Inc. (NASDAQ:TRIP), are especially curated for this cohort to help them plan travel adventures on their own.
Many of these travelers, including boomers, wish to take things slowly during this travel and engage and immerse themselves in the local culture, hence the explainable golden gap year. Tripadvisor, Inc. (NASDAQ:TRIP) talks about this slow tourism trend, stating that hotel owners can initiate various packages and plans that cater to such slow travelers. These sorts of packages are likely to attract more customers, including the baby boomer cohort.
S-F/Shutterstock.com
To compile our list of best vacations for retired couples, we gathered information from reputable sources such as Frommer’s, Budget Your Trip, Travel + Leisure, forums, and other sources. We then applied a scoring system based on three primary factors: attractions, affordability, and accessibility. Each destination received a total score out of 30, and rankings were determined by these scores, from lowest to highest. This approach ensured a comprehensive and well-considered selection of vacation destinations tailored to the needs and interests of retired couples.
Insider Monkey Score: 19
For those seeking an idyllic vacation, Hawaii is undoubtedly one of the best vacations for retired couples in the USA. From exploring the dramatic landscapes of the Big Island and hiking through the jungles of Kauai to witnessing a romantic sunset at Waikiki Beach, every day in Hawaii seems like a new adventure. Couples can also make the most of enticing cruise deals offered by companies such as Expedia Group in collaboration with renowned cruise lines like Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. (NYSE:NCLH) and Princess. Many cruise lines such as AIDA Cruises also offer some of the best vacations for seniors with limited mobility, offering a wealth of amenities, dedicated onboard assistance, and the convenience of unpacking once.
Insider Monkey Score: 19
The Canadian Rockies appeal to all nature-loving retirees who wouldn't mind a little bit of adventure. This mountain range spans the provinces of British Columbia and Alberta in Canada, featuring alpine lakes, ice-capped peaks, diverse wildlife, and plenty of recreational sites. Retired couples can enjoy leisurely walks along its scenic trails, engage in adventurous pursuits such as hiking, biking, and wildlife spotting, or even unwind at the many natural hot springs such as Radium Hot Springs and the Banff Upper Hot Springs. The Rocky Mountaineer, a rail-tour company, also offers luxurious train travel journeys along its old and new routes for the adventure of a lifetime.
Insider Monkey Score: 20
One of the best vacations for retired couples is in Bangkok, Thailand. Couples can relish top-class amenities and recreational opportunities in Bangkok at an affordable cost compared to regions like the USA and Europe. A two-week vacation in Bangkok can cost around $2,000 for an individual, and $4,000 for couples. From spas and wellness retreats to vibrant markets and world-class entertainment, retirees are surely going to have a unique experience vacationing here. Damnoen Saduak, the city's floating market, is a fun way to shop for handmade crafts and local produce. Retirees can also take a river cruise along the Chao Phraya River, exploring Bangkok landmarks and engaging in sightseeing.
Insider Monkey Score: 21
Paris, drawing around 35 million visitors each year, is a quintessential romantic travel destination. Retired couples who wish to relive their honeymoon memories can take a stroll hand in hand along the Seine River, embrace beneath the Eiffel Tower, or savor French cuisine in charming bistros and patisseries. Train trips for seniors over 60 even offer 25-50% discount on journeys through SNCF, the French State Railway Company.
Insider Monkey Score: 21.5
One of the best vacations for retired couples in the world is Tuscany, Italy. The charming countryside landscapes, rolling hills, and picturesque vineyards serve as the perfect escapade from the hustle and bustle of everyday life. The region is also home to delectable cuisine, boasting the finest Italian dishes and wine. Couples can explore the many wine regions such as Chianti and Montepulciano, devouring the tastings, wine tours, and vineyard visits. Experts recommend looking for senior discounts on trains, using pre-paid cards, and using short-term rentals when visiting the region.
Insider Monkey Score: 22
Those looking to experience the charm of Venice can opt for a vacation in Amsterdam, Netherlands instead. The city's intricate canal system is a major attraction for tourists, enticing them to embark on canal cruises for a fun exploration of the historic center and the enjoyment of scenic vistas.
Seniors have a wealth of exhilarating opportunities to explore, such as participating in a private flower auction excursion, embarking on an exclusive culinary adventure, and savoring a diverse range of delights from Gouda cheese to delectable fries and chocolate. Alternatively, they can opt for a semi-private tour that winds through charming countryside villages, many of whom are starting at just $70.
Insider Monkey Score: 23
Several tour operators, such as Tour Radar and Zicasso, offer personalized vacation packages to Costa Rica that are tailored to the specific interests and requirements of senior travelers. Retirees get to unwind at some of the most luxurious five-star hotel accommodations, bask in the sun at Costa Rica's pristine white sand beaches, experience the beauty of Puerto Limon through a cruise by Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. (NYSE:NCLH), and engage in exclusive tours of its lush rain forest. Retired couples can enjoy many activities together such as white water rafting, zip-lining, snorkeling, and even surfing.
Insider Monkey Score: 23.5
Another excellent vacation spot for retired couples is Barcelona, Spain. Retirees can begin by checking in to senior-friendly hotels in Barcelona such as Barcelona Princess and Negresco Princess, enjoying amenities such as pools and buffet breakfasts to Mediterranean cuisine. Couples can even go for long strolls up to the beach, which is close by. The many restaurants and tapas bars are a delight to try, followed by the many cultural events such as music festivals and theater performances. Keep an eye out for senior-friendly discounts on public transportation and attractions alike.
Insider Monkey Score: 24
The perfect romantic getaway for retired couples in Greece. An avid senior traveler recommends older couples to choose Crete when going to Greece. The Greek island is ideal for senior couples because it offers direct flights, offers excellent hotels with no steps, boasts amazing beaches, and also important archaeological sites to explore. While the majority favors Santorini; Crete is an ideal trip for seniors over 70 that boasts senior-friendly infrastructure to cater to them.
Insider Monkey Score: 24
When in South Africa, retired couples can also get a chance to embark on some of the best African safaris. Visiting Cape Town is an absolute must during this adventure as it is known to have the best of culture, culinary experiences, and city life. Beautiful beaches, Table Mountain, and the iconic Cape Peninsula offer some of the best views, sunsets, and recreational activities. Nature enthusiasts can also visit some of the many wildlife reserves in the city, seeing the Big Five and other animals in their natural habitat. Packages to Cape Town start as low as $1,000.
Insider Monkey Score: 24.5
Seychelles is a top vacation for retired couples looking for the right blend of pristine beaches, serene ambiance, and natural beauty. Retirees can enjoy glass-bottom boat tours or explore the underwater world brimming with colorful fish and other species. There are many upscale resorts and villas available for a romantic getaway, as well as exquisite cuisine marked by fresh seafood and exotic fruits. Visiting nature reserves can be a wonderful experience as well.
Insider Monkey Score: 24.5
Best to be visited during May and September, Marrakech can serve as a distinctive North African experience for retirees. Known for its beautiful gardens such as Majorelle and Menara, retirees can indulge in leisurely walks, shop at the souks in the medina, lodge at the historical Moroccan houses called riads, and explore historical landmarks such as Koutoubia Mosque and the Saadian Tombs. Couples can also take day trips to the Atlas Mountains or nearby towns such as Essaouira. Lastly, the delicious cuisine, especially tagine and couscous, makes the trip to Marrakech especially memorable.
Insider Monkey Score: 25
Known to be a senior-friendly vacation destination, Bali is one of the best vacations for retired couples. Seniors get to relax and connect with nature as the region is home to some of the most serene jungles, volcanic mountains, beautiful beaches, and lush rice terraces. Numerous spas and wellness retreats are the perfect way to rejuvenate, while luxurious beachfront resorts and villas can provide a memorable place to stay. An ideal place to stay in Bali is Sanur, a calm area with a pristine beach and plenty to do. Diverse and delicious, some of the many delicacies to try in Bali include nasi goreng (fried rice) and mie goreng (fried noodles).
Click to continue reading and see the 5 Best Vacations for Retired Couples.
Suggested Articles:
40 Awesome Places to Retire on $3,000 a Month or Less
15 Best Places to Retire in South America
11 Safe Healthcare Stocks for Retirement
Disclosure: none. 18 Best Vacations for Retired Couples is originally published on Insider Monkey.