url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-1-momentum-stock-could-135006619.html
title:Why_This_1_Momentum_Stock_Could_Be_a_Great_Addition_to_Your_Portfolio
For new and old investors, taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals.
Many investors also have a go-to methodology that helps guide their buy and sell decisions. One way to find winning stocks based on your preferred way of investing is to use the Zacks Style Scores, which are indicators that rate stocks based on three widely-followed investing types: value, growth, and momentum.
Is This 1 Momentum Stock a Screaming Buy Right Now?
Momentum investors, who live by the saying "the trend is your friend," are most interested in taking advantage of upward or downward trends in a stock's price or earnings outlook. Utilizing one-week price change and the monthly percentage change in earnings estimates, among other factors, the Momentum Style Score can help determine favorable times to buy high-momentum stocks.
Paccar (PCAR)
Headquartered in Bellevue, WA, PACCAR Inc. is a leading manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks in the world and has substantial manufacturing exposure to light/medium trucks. It also designs and manufactures diesel engines and other powertrain components for use in its products and sale to third-party manufacturers of trucks and buses. Besides supplying aftermarket parts, PACCAR also offers finance and leasing services.
PCAR boasts a Momentum Style Score of A and VGM Score of A, and holds a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) rating. Shares of Paccar has seen some interesting price action recently; the stock is down 0.2% over the past one week and up 1.2% over the past four weeks. And in the last one-year period, PCAR has gained 38.7%. As for the stock's trading volume, 2,479,355 shares on average were traded over the last 20 days.
A company's earnings performance is important for momentum investors as well. For fiscal 2023, three analysts revised their earnings estimate higher in the last 60 days for PCAR, while the Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0.05 to $8.59 per share. PCAR also boasts an average earnings surprise of 16%.
PCAR should be on investors' short list because of its impressive earnings fundamentals, a good Zacks Rank, and strong Momentum and VGM Style Scores.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
PACCAR Inc. (PCAR) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research