url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/zacks-com-featured-highlights-griffon-093900538.html
title:Zackscom_featured_highlights_include_Griffon_PACCAR_Microsoft_FedEx_and_The_TJX
Chicago, IL – November 1, 2023 – Stocks in this week’s article are Griffon Corp. GFF, PACCAR Inc. PCAR, Microsoft Corp. MSFT, FedEx Corp. FDX and The TJX Companies, Inc. TJX.
Amid rising bond yields and growing geopolitical tensions, investors are flocking to dividend investing for safe and consistent returns. Dividends are major sources of consistent income for investors, though they do not offer dramatic price appreciation. These stocks tend to outperform in a choppy market and can reduce the volatility of a portfolio.
In fact, stocks with a strong history of year-over-year dividend growth form a healthy portfolio with a greater scope of capital appreciation, as opposed to simple dividend-paying stocks or those that have high yields. We have selected five dividend growth stocks — Griffon Corp., PACCAR Inc., Microsoft Corp., FedEx Corp. and The TJX Companies, Inc.— that could be solid choices for your portfolio.
Stocks that have a strong history of dividend growth belong to mature companies, which are less susceptible to large swings in the market, and thus act as a hedge against economic or political uncertainty as well as stock market volatility. At the same time, these offer downside protection with their consistent increase in payouts.
Additionally, these stocks have superior fundamentals that make dividend growth a quality and promising investment for the long term. These include a sustainable business model, a long track of profitability, rising cash flows, good liquidity, a strong balance sheet and some value characteristics. Further, a history of strong dividend growth indicates that a dividend increase is likely in the future.
Although these stocks do not necessarily have the highest yields, they have outperformed for a longer period than the broader stock market or any other dividend-paying stock.
Here are five of the six stocks that fit the bill:
New York-based Griffon is a diversified management and holding company conducting business through wholly-owned subsidiaries. The company saw a positive earnings estimate revision of a couple of cents over the past seven days for the fiscal year ending September 2024 and delivered an average earnings surprise of 30.38% for the past four quarters.
Griffon has a Zacks Rank #1 and a Growth Score of A. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank stocks here.
Washington-based PACCAR is a leading manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks in the world and has substantial manufacturing exposure to light/medium trucks. The company saw a solid earnings estimate revision of 40 cents over the past seven days for this year and has an estimated growth rate of 56.3%.
PACCAR has a Zacks Rank #2 and a Growth Score of B.
Washington-based Microsoft is one of the largest broad-based technology providers in the world. The company dominates the PC software market, with more than 73% of the market share for desktop operating systems. Microsoft saw a solid earnings estimate revision of 21 cents for the fiscal year (ending June 2024) over the past seven days and has an estimated earnings growth rate of 13.2%
Microsoft has a Zacks Rank #2 and a Growth Score of A.
Tennessee-based FedEx is the leader in global express delivery services. It provides a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce and business services through companies competing collectively, operating independently and managing collaboratively under the FedEx brand. FedEx saw a positive earnings estimate revision of 16 cents over the past 30 days for the fiscal year (ending May 2024) and has an estimated earnings growth rate of 21.26%.
FDX has a Zacks Rank #2 and a Growth Score of A.
Massachusetts-based TJX Companies is a leading off-price retailer of apparel and home fashions in the United States and worldwide. The company's broad range of assortments at varying prices helps it reach out to a broad range of consumers. TJX Companies saw a positive earnings estimate revision of a penny over the past seven days for the fiscal year ending January 2024 and has an estimated growth rate of 19.61%.
TJX Companies has a Zacks Rank #2 and a Growth Score of A.
You can get the remaining stock on this list by signing up now for your 2-week free trial to the Research Wizard and start using this screen in your own trading. Further, you can also create your own strategies and test them first before taking the investment plunge.
The Research Wizard is a great place to begin. It's easy to use. Everything is in plain language. And it's very intuitive. Start your Research Wizard trial today. And the next time you read an economic report, open up the Research Wizard, plug your finds in, and see what gems come out.
Click here to sign up for a free trial to the Research Wizard today.
For the rest of this Screen of the Week article please visit Zacks.com at: https://www.zacks.com/stock/news/2175176/5-top-dividend-growth-stocks-to-buy-amid-market-volatility
Disclosure: Officers, directors and/or employees of Zacks Investment Research may own or have sold short securities and/or hold long and/or short positions in options that are mentioned in this material. An affiliated investment advisory firm may own or have sold short securities and/or hold long and/or short positions in options that are mentioned in this material.
About Screen of the Week
Zacks.com created the first and best screening system on the web earning the distinction as the "#1 site for screening stocks" by Money Magazine.  But powerful screening tools is just the start. That is why Zacks created the Screen of the Week to highlight profitable stock picking strategies that investors can actively use.
Strong Stocks that Should Be in the News
Many are little publicized and fly under the Wall Street radar. They're virtually unknown to the general public. Yet today's 220 Zacks Rank #1 "Strong Buys" were generated by the stock-picking system that has more than doubled the market from 1988 through 2016. Its average gain has been a stellar +25% per year. See these high-potential stocks free >>.
Follow us on Twitter:  https://www.twitter.com/zacksresearch
Join us on Facebook:  https://www.facebook.com/ZacksInvestmentResearch
Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates.
Contact: Jim Giaquinto
Company: Zacks.com
Phone: 312-265-9268
Email: pr@zacks.com
Visit: https://www.zacks.com/
Zacks.com provides investment resources and informs you of these resources, which you may choose to use in making your own investment decisions. Zacks is providing information on this resource to you subject to the Zacks "Terms and Conditions of Service" disclaimer. www.zacks.com/disclaimer.
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit https://www.zacks.com/performancefor information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Microsoft Corporation (MSFT) : Free Stock Analysis Report
The TJX Companies, Inc. (TJX) : Free Stock Analysis Report
PACCAR Inc. (PCAR) : Free Stock Analysis Report
FedEx Corporation (FDX) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Griffon Corporation (GFF) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research