url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/zacks-investment-ideas-feature-highlights-131900827.html
title:Zacks_Investment_Ideas_feature_highlights_Tesla_Alphabet_Pinterest_Netflix_and_Meta_Platforms
Chicago, IL – November 2, 2023 – Today, Zacks Investment Ideas feature highlights Tesla TSLA, Alphabet GOOGL, Pinterest PINS, Netflix NFLX and Meta Platforms META.
Because 75% of stocks tend to follow the market direction, it's not a surprise that there have been several earnings' "landmines" this quarter as US equities have pulled back. For example, leaders from certain sectors gapped down following their earnings reports, including Tesla and Alphabet. While an earnings season like the current one can be dangerous to those investors who are overexposed, it can also be telling. Stocks that reported better-than-expected results, bucked the market trend, and gapped up in price following earnings should be closely monitored.
Post-earnings drift refers to the tendency of a stock's price to continue moving in the same direction as the initial price reaction. When a company reports stronger than anticipated results, institutional investors pile into shares. However, because these deep-pocketed investors tend to accumulate shares over time, often the initial gap in price is just the beginning. In other words, powerful earnings gaps lead to big trends.
Thus far this earnings season 3 big earnings winners have emerged that are poised to benefit from this phenomenon, including:
Pinterest is a social media platform that allows users to discover, save, and share visual ideas and content by pinning images and videos to personalized collections called boards. Pinterest generates revenues by delivering ads on its website and mobile applications.
Pinterest reported quarterly EPS that grew a healthy 155% year-over-year, beating Zacks Consensus Estimates by 33%.
Earlier this year, Pinterest inked a multiyear ads partnership with Amazon. On Pinterest's earnings call, the CEO touted the partnership by saying
"..we see really good progress. We're testing, learning, iterating and we're focused on creating a really great relevant user experience and valuable merchant experience. And we're really pleased with what we're seeing on that front. That's the biggest breakthrough and this is demonstrating the increase in relevancy from bringing on third-party demand. As I noted in the prior question, 50% increase in relevance on search and 100% increase in relevance on related items, I that just bodes really well for where we can go with that. So those are the biggest things to solve for. As we've been calling out, it is a multi-quarter implementation with the most meaningful revenue to hit early in '24."
Investors rewarded the stock by sending shares soaring by 19% on volume 557% above the norm. Such robust price and volume are indicative of heavy institutional accumulation.
Netflix
After suffering four straight quarters with lackluster earnings growth, Netflix, the king of streaming, is back on track. More importantly than earnings growth, Netflix is gaining subscribers again – in a big way.
In the third quarter, Netflix smashed subscriber expectations by adding 8.76 million global subscribers – well above the 5.49 million the street was expecting. A crackdown in password sharing spurred subscriber growth. Meanwhile, a new ad-supported tier of its streaming service helped profitability. After its report last week, NFLX shares rocketed 16% on massive volume. Since then, shares have digested gains in a tight consolidation – proof that even with their significant profits, investors are unwilling to part with shares.
At this juncture, the AI revolution is inevitable. However, the winners and losers have yet to be determined. That's not an issue for Arista Networks, which sells computer switches that speed up communications in internet data centers. The math is simple. AI requires data centers, and data centers require ANET's switches. Despite worries about less revenue from ANET client Meta Platforms, shares emerged from a double-bottom base structure yesterday.
Why Haven't You Looked at Zacks' Top Stocks? 
Since 2000, our top stock-picking strategies have blown away the S&P's +6.2 average gain per year. Amazingly, they soared with average gains of +46.4%, +49.5% and +55.2% per year. Today you can access their live picks without cost or obligation.
See Stocks Free >>
Media Contact
Zacks Investment Research
800-767-3771 ext. 9339
support@zacks.com
https://www.zacks.com
Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit https://www.zacks.com/performancefor information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Netflix, Inc. (NFLX) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Tesla, Inc. (TSLA) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Alphabet Inc. (GOOGL) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Pinterest, Inc. (PINS) : Free Stock Analysis Report
Meta Platforms, Inc. (META) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research