url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/time-consider-buying-kla-corporation-120242177.html
title:Is_It_Time_To_Consider_Buying_KLA_Corporation_NASDAQKLAC
Let's talk about the popular KLA Corporation (NASDAQ:KLAC). The company's shares saw significant share price movement during recent months on the NASDAQGS, rising to highs of US$514 and falling to the lows of US$445. Some share price movements can give investors a better opportunity to enter into the stock, and potentially buy at a lower price. A question to answer is whether KLA's current trading price of US$489 reflective of the actual value of the large-cap? Or is it currently undervalued, providing us with the opportunity to buy? Let’s take a look at KLA’s outlook and value based on the most recent financial data to see if there are any catalysts for a price change.
 View our latest analysis for KLA 
The stock seems fairly valued at the moment according to my valuation model. It’s trading around 3.33% above my intrinsic value, which means if you buy KLA today, you’d be paying a relatively fair price for it. And if you believe that the stock is really worth $473.55, there’s only an insignificant downside when the price falls to its real value. So, is there another chance to buy low in the future? Given that KLA’s share is fairly volatile (i.e. its price movements are magnified relative to the rest of the market) this could mean the price can sink lower, giving us an opportunity to buy later on. This is based on its high beta, which is a good indicator for share price volatility.
Future outlook is an important aspect when you’re looking at buying a stock, especially if you are an investor looking for growth in your portfolio. Although value investors would argue that it’s the intrinsic value relative to the price that matter the most, a more compelling investment thesis would be high growth potential at a cheap price. KLA's earnings over the next few years are expected to increase by 30%, indicating a highly optimistic future ahead. This should lead to more robust cash flows, feeding into a higher share value.
Are you a shareholder? It seems like the market has already priced in KLAC’s positive outlook, with shares trading around its fair value. However, there are also other important factors which we haven’t considered today, such as the financial strength of the company. Have these factors changed since the last time you looked at the stock? Will you have enough confidence to invest in the company should the price drop below its fair value?
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping tabs on KLAC, now may not be the most advantageous time to buy, given it is trading around its fair value. However, the positive outlook is encouraging for the company, which means it’s worth diving deeper into other factors such as the strength of its balance sheet, in order to take advantage of the next price drop.
In light of this, if you'd like to do more analysis on the company, it's vital to be informed of the risks involved. You'd be interested to know, that we found 1 warning sign for KLA and you'll want to know about it.
If you are no longer interested in KLA, you can use our free platform to see our list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.