url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/klas-nasdaq-klac-shareholders-receive-100219044.html
title:KLAs_NASDAQKLAC_Shareholders_Will_Receive_A_Bigger_Dividend_Than_Last_Year
KLA Corporation (NASDAQ:KLAC) will increase its dividend from last year's comparable payment on the 1st of December to $1.45. Based on this payment, the dividend yield for the company will be 1.2%, which is fairly typical for the industry.
 View our latest analysis for KLA 
While it is always good to see a solid dividend yield, we should also consider whether the payment is feasible. However, prior to this announcement, KLA's dividend was comfortably covered by both cash flow and earnings. As a result, a large proportion of what it earned was being reinvested back into the business.
The next year is set to see EPS grow by 47.6%. If the dividend continues on this path, the payout ratio could be 18% by next year, which we think can be pretty sustainable going forward.
The company has an extended history of paying stable dividends. Since 2013, the dividend has gone from $1.60 total annually to $5.80. This implies that the company grew its distributions at a yearly rate of about 14% over that duration. So, dividends have been growing pretty quickly, and even more impressively, they haven't experienced any notable falls during this period.
Some investors will be chomping at the bit to buy some of the company's stock based on its dividend history. It's encouraging to see that KLA has been growing its earnings per share at 31% a year over the past five years. A low payout ratio gives the company a lot of flexibility, and growing earnings also make it very easy for it to grow the dividend.
Overall, a dividend increase is always good, and we think that KLA is a strong income stock thanks to its track record and growing earnings. The company is easily earning enough to cover its dividend payments and it is great to see that these earnings are being translated into cash flow. All in all, this checks a lot of the boxes we look for when choosing an income stock.
Investors generally tend to favour companies with a consistent, stable dividend policy as opposed to those operating an irregular one. Still, investors need to consider a host of other factors, apart from dividend payments, when analysing a company. For example, we've picked out 1 warning sign for KLA that investors should know about before committing capital to this stock. Looking for more high-yielding dividend ideas? Try our collection of strong dividend payers.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.