url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-care-klas-nasdaq-klac-110058549.html
title:Why_You_Should_Care_About_KLAs_NASDAQKLAC_Strong_Returns_On_Capital
If you're not sure where to start when looking for the next multi-bagger, there are a few key trends you should keep an eye out for. In a perfect world, we'd like to see a company investing more capital into its business and ideally the returns earned from that capital are also increasing. Basically this means that a company has profitable initiatives that it can continue to reinvest in, which is a trait of a compounding machine. Ergo, when we looked at the ROCE trends at KLA (NASDAQ:KLAC), we liked what we saw.
For those that aren't sure what ROCE is, it measures the amount of pre-tax profits a company can generate from the capital employed in its business. Analysts use this formula to calculate it for KLA:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) รท (Total Assets - Current Liabilities)
0.37 = US$3.8b รท (US$14b - US$3.8b) (Based on the trailing twelve months to September 2023).
Therefore, KLA has an ROCE of 37%. That's a fantastic return and not only that, it outpaces the average of 11% earned by companies in a similar industry.
 View our latest analysis for KLA 
In the above chart we have measured KLA's prior ROCE against its prior performance, but the future is arguably more important. If you'd like, you can check out the forecasts from the analysts covering KLA here  for free.
KLA deserves to be commended in regards to it's returns. Over the past five years, ROCE has remained relatively flat at around 37% and the business has deployed 138% more capital into its operations. With returns that high, it's great that the business can continually reinvest its money at such appealing rates of return. You'll see this when looking at well operated businesses or favorable business models.
In short, we'd argue KLA has the makings of a multi-bagger since its been able to compound its capital at very profitable rates of return. On top of that, the stock has rewarded shareholders with a remarkable 438% return to those who've held over the last five years. So even though the stock might be more "expensive" than it was before, we think the strong fundamentals warrant this stock for further research.
On a separate note, we've found   1 warning sign for KLA   you'll probably want to know about.
High returns are a key ingredient to strong performance, so check out our free list ofstocks earning high returns on equity with solid balance sheets.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.