url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-1-momentum-stock-could-145008410.html
title:Why_This_1_Momentum_Stock_Could_Be_a_Great_Addition_to_Your_Portfolio
It doesn't matter your age or experience: taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals for all investors.
Achieving those goals is made easier with the Zacks Style Scores, a unique set of guidelines that rates stocks based on popular investing methodologies, namely value, growth, and momentum. The Style Scores can help you narrow down which stocks are better for your portfolio and which ones can beat the market over the long-term.
Is This 1 Momentum Stock a Screaming Buy Right Now?
Momentum investors, who live by the saying "the trend is your friend," are most interested in taking advantage of upward or downward trends in a stock's price or earnings outlook. Utilizing one-week price change and the monthly percentage change in earnings estimates, among other factors, the Momentum Style Score can help determine favorable times to buy high-momentum stocks.
Amgen (AMGN)
Thousand Oaks, CA-based Amgen is one of the biggest biotech companies in the world, with a strong presence in the oncology/hematology, cardiovascular disease, neuroscience, inflammation, bone health and nephrology and neuroscience markets. The company used advances in cellular and molecular biology to develop two of the biotech industry’s earliest and most successful drugs, Epogen (anemia) and Neupogen (white blood cell stimulant). Amgen successfully launched two next-generation products, Aranesp and Neulasta.  Meanwhile, the acquisition of Immunex Corporation gave Amgen access to the multi-blockbuster drug, Enbrel. However, all these older drugs are facing declining sales due to biosimilar or branded competition, which is being somewhat offset by its newer blockbuster drugs like Prolia and Xgeva. Other products are Repatha, Blincyto, Vectibix, Nplate, Kyprolis, Evenity, Otezla, Aimovig, Lumakras/Lumykras, Tezspire, Tavneos, Kanjinti, Mvasi and Amgevita biosimilars.
AMGN sits at a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), holds a Momentum Style Score of A, and has a VGM Score of B. The stock is up 3.7% and up 0.5% over the past one-week and four-week period, respectively, and Amgen has lost 1.5% in the last one-year period as well. Additionally, an average of 2,810,634.25 shares were traded over the last 20 trading sessions.
Momentum investors don't just pay attention to price changes; positive earnings play a crucial role, too. Eight analysts revised their earnings estimate upwards in the last 60 days for fiscal 2023. The Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0.31 to $18.61 per share. AMGN boasts an average earnings surprise of 6%.
AMGN should be on investors' short list because of its impressive earnings fundamentals, a good Zacks Rank, and strong Momentum and VGM Style Scores.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research
Related Quotes