url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/big-dill-heinz-launch-pickle-050100813.html
title:Its_a_Big_Dill_HEINZ_To_Launch_New_Pickle_Ketchup_Nationwide
The world’s irrational love for both HEINZ and pickles is set to make this new condiment a cult favorite
PITTSBURGH & CHICAGO, November 06, 2023--(BUSINESS WIRE)--HEINZ® Ketchup and pickles have proudly sat side-by-side on burgers and hot dogs across America for over 150 years. There is something irresistible about the combination, so condiment category leader, HEINZ, today announces the launch of Pickle Ketchup, a new condiment that combines the tangy and savory flavor of pickles with the unmistakable taste of HEINZ Ketchup. Pickle Ketchup is the latest HEINZ innovation designed to deliver on fans’ hunger for unique, elevated, and nuanced flavor experiences.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231105470473/en/
HEINZ debuts Pickle Ketchup, a new condiment that combines the tangy and savory flavor of pickles with the unmistakable taste of HEINZ Ketchup. (Photo: Business Wire)
Obsession with pickles is at a high, with 73 percent of Americans reporting that they enjoy the taste of pickles.1 And no one knows pickles quite like HEINZ. From the tiny gherkin on the brand’s infamous keystone label to Henry J. Heinz earning the nickname "Pickle King" for owning the largest pickle company in the United States in the early 1900s, pickles have played an intrinsic role in shaping HEINZ history. Combining two beloved HEINZ heritage products into one delicious condiment uniquely positions Pickle Ketchup to win with HEINZ fans and pickle lovers around the world.
"Increased desire for tasty, yet unexpected condiments has served as our innovation north star for the last several years," says Katie Peterson, Director of HEINZ Innovation at The Kraft Heinz Company. "The current pickle craze in America mirrors the irrational love HEINZ fans have for the brand, so it only made sense for our newest ketchup to blend these two beloved tastes together."
Over the last decade, HEINZ has embarked on an innovation expansion, doubling down on more nuanced flavor profiles and elevated dipping experiences. From the HEINZ Hot Varieties to the brand’s limited-edition Sauce Drops, HEINZ REMIX™, and more, Pickle Ketchup is the latest example of this strategy at work. The launch of Pickle Ketchup also underscores how Kraft Heinz is betting big on innovation, leveraging consumer insights to shape growth and prioritizing category expansion within its Taste Elevation portfolio.
Pickle Ketchup marks the first HEINZ innovation to launch globally following the brand’s unification under one global creative platform earlier this year. Pickle Ketchup will begin rolling out on shelves in the United States in early 2024. It is currently rolling out in select retailers in the United Kingdom and will roll out to additional markets later this year and early next. To learn more about HEINZ Pickle Ketchup availability, visit Heinz.com and follow @Heinz on Instagram and @Heinz_us on TikTok.
1Datassential Report, October 2023
About the Kraft Heinz Company
We are driving transformation at The Kraft Heinz Company (Nasdaq: KHC), inspired by our Purpose, Let’s Make Life Delicious. Consumers are at the center of everything we do. With 2022 net sales of approximately $26 billion, we are committed to growing our iconic and emerging food and beverage brands on a global scale. We leverage our scale and agility to unleash the full power of Kraft Heinz across a portfolio of six consumer-driven product platforms. As global citizens, we’re dedicated to making a sustainable, ethical impact while helping feed the world in healthy, responsible ways. Learn more about our journey by visiting www.kraftheinzcompany.com or following us on LinkedIn.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231105470473/en/
Contacts
THE KRAFT HEINZ COMPANYAlexandra Liebermanalexandra.lieberman@kraftheinz.com
ZENO GROUPBethany Stokoskibethany.stokoski@zenogroup.com