url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/kraft-singles-top-chef-finalist-110000801.html
title:KRAFT_Singles_and_Top_Chef_Finalist_Shirley_Chung_Unveil_Souplings_A_FirstofitsKind_Grilled_Cheese_and_Tomato_Soup_Dumpling
The classic duo collides into a one-bite, irresistibly cheesy creation, available for a limited-time
CHICAGO & PITTSBURGH, November 08, 2023--(BUSINESS WIRE)--KRAFT® Singles, the go-to leader in American cheese, has joined forces with Top Chef finalist and dumpling extraordinaire, Shirley Chung, to bring the world an irresistible Chinese American fusion: KRAFT Singles’ Souplings. In a tantalizing twist on the American classic, Souplings are tomato soup and grilled cheese, made with KRAFT Singles, merged for the first time in one single, irresistible bite.
This press release features multimedia. View the full release here: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231108716896/en/
KRAFT® Singles and Top Chef Finalist Shirley Chung Unveil Souplings: A First-of-its-Kind Grilled Cheese and Tomato Soup Dumpling (Photo: Business Wire)
The age-old combination of melty grilled cheese and comforting tomato soup has transcended generations. Despite the many decades that Americans have been enjoying this iconic duo, one constant remains: dipping your melty, gooey grilled cheese into tomato soup is a must. With KRAFT Singles’ Souplings, the so-good taste and undeniable melt of KRAFT Singles is perfectly combined with tomato soup – no dunking required.
"Grilled Cheese and Tomato soup is the American icon for simple, classic, go-to comfort food. Dumplings, too, are a delicacy that delivers easy enjoyment," says Stephanie Vance, Brand Manager, Kraft Singles. "KRAFT Singles is thrilled to partner with Chef Shirley, known for her celebrations of American classics via unique Chinese fusions, to bring people a playful new way to enjoy the simple, melty flavors of this combo."
Both KRAFT Singles and Chef Chung share a passion for innovation and the pursuit of creating memorable experiences. Chef Chung’s unique perspective and culinary expertise made her the perfect collaborator. The fusion of Chung’s progressive Chinese American cuisine with KRAFT Singles’ irresistible melty role in American classics brings forth a one-of-a-kind dish that is sure to captivate the hearts and palates of food enthusiasts.
"I love marrying traditional, authentic Chinese cuisine in new and progressive American ways," said Chung. "What better way to marry the traditions of Chinese cuisine than with the delightful, simple flavors of Grilled Cheese and Tomato Soup? Of course, I had to use Kraft Singles as the best and meltiest American Cheese for an amazing Grilled Cheese however you enjoy it."
Starting November 8th, the KRAFT Singles Souplings will be available at Chung’s restaurant, Ms Chi Café in Culver City, CA, for a limited time. Those that are unable to make it to the restaurant can join a waitlist to order the Souplings on Goldbelly.com, creating an experience for fans from coast to coast to enjoy in the comfort of their own homes, making winter nights warmer and tastier. Share the KRAFT Singles Souplings on social by tagging @KraftSingles and @ChfShirleyChung with #KraftSinglesSouplings.
ABOUT KRAFT HEINZ COMPANY
We are driving transformation at The Kraft Heinz Company (Nasdaq: KHC), inspired by our Purpose, Let’s Make Life Delicious. Consumers are at the center of everything we do. With 2022 net sales of approximately $26 billion, we are committed to growing our iconic and emerging food and beverage brands on a global scale. We leverage our scale and agility to unleash the full power of Kraft Heinz across a portfolio of six consumer-driven product platforms. As global citizens, we’re dedicated to making a sustainable, ethical impact while helping feed the world in healthy, responsible ways. Learn more about our journey by visiting www.kraftheinzcompany.com or following us on LinkedIn.
ABOUT CHEF SHIRLEY CHUNG
Chef Shirley Chung also known as "The Dumpling Queen of Los Angeles", is the co-owner and Executive Chef of Ms Chi Cafe, where she showcases her Chinese heritage, signature dumplings, and progressive Chinese-American cuisine. Shirley's culinary journey took off after competing in Bravo's Top Chef season 11. In 2014, she became Chef Partner at Twenty Eight Modern Chinese, followed by a return to Top Chef in 2016, where she secured the runner-up spot. In 2018, she authored her debut cookbook, "Chinese Heritage Cooking from My American Kitchen," and concurrently launched Ms Chi Cafe in Culver City with her husband, Jimmy Lee. In 2019, Shirley served as the inaugural chef at Abernethy's, a chef-driven community restaurant at the Music Center in downtown Los Angeles, and was invited to serve on the Council’s Culinary Advisory Committee for the Emerging Chefs Program in 2023. A passionate advocate for the AAPI community, Shirley is part of Mayor Karen Bass’s AAPI LA Task Force and TeachAAPI for children. Shirley’s TV appearances include serving as a chef mentor for HBO Max’s The Big Brunch; regular appearances on Food Network’s Guy’s Grocery Games and Guy’s Ranch Kitchen; competing on seasons 3 and 4 of Tournament of the Champions; serving as a judge and mentor on Top Chef Amateurs, Chopped, Top Chef Family Style, FOX’s Hell’s Kitchen and guest chef appearances on the TODAY Show, the Good Dish, Hallmark’s Home & Family Show, Tastemade’s Make This Tonight, The Steve Harvey Show, and more.
View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20231108716896/en/
Contacts
MEDIA ALISON BROD MARKETING COMMUNICATIONSKraftheinz@abmc-us.com
THE KRAFT HEINZ COMPANYjenna.thornton@kraftheinz.com
Related Quotes