url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/kraft-heinzs-nasdaq-khc-dividend-120932939.html
title:Kraft_Heinzs_NASDAQKHC_Dividend_Will_Be_040
The Kraft Heinz Company (NASDAQ:KHC) has announced that it will pay a dividend of $0.40 per share on the 29th of December. The dividend yield will be 4.8% based on this payment which is still above the industry average.
 Check out our latest analysis for Kraft Heinz 
A big dividend yield for a few years doesn't mean much if it can't be sustained. The last dividend was quite comfortably covered by Kraft Heinz's earnings, but it was a bit tighter on the cash flow front. The company is clearly earning enough to pay this type of dividend, but it is definitely focused on returning cash to shareholders, rather than growing the business.
Looking forward, earnings per share is forecast to rise by 40.9% over the next year. Assuming the dividend continues along recent trends, we think the payout ratio could be 45% by next year, which is in a pretty sustainable range.
Even in its relatively short history, the company has reduced the dividend at least once. This makes us cautious about the consistency of the dividend over a full economic cycle. Since 2015, the annual payment back then was $2.30, compared to the most recent full-year payment of $1.60. Doing the maths, this is a decline of about 4.4% per year. A company that decreases its dividend over time generally isn't what we are looking for.
With a relatively unstable dividend, it's even more important to evaluate if earnings per share is growing, which could point to a growing dividend in the future. Kraft Heinz's EPS has fallen by approximately 22% per year during the past five years. Such rapid declines definitely have the potential to constrain dividend payments if the trend continues into the future. It's not all bad news though, as the earnings are predicted to rise over the next 12 months - we would just be a bit cautious until this becomes a long term trend.
Overall, it's nice to see a consistent dividend payment, but we think that longer term, the current level of payment might be unsustainable. The company hasn't been paying a very consistent dividend over time, despite only paying out a small portion of earnings. Overall, we don't think this company has the makings of a good income stock.
It's important to note that companies having a consistent dividend policy will generate greater investor confidence than those having an erratic one. Meanwhile, despite the importance of dividend payments, they are not the only factors our readers should know when assessing a company. For instance, we've picked out 1 warning sign for Kraft Heinz that investors should take into consideration. Is Kraft Heinz not quite the opportunity you were looking for? Why not check out our selection of top dividend stocks. 
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.