url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/kraft-heinz-company-nasdaq-khc-175711942.html
title:The_Kraft_Heinz_Company_NASDAQKHC_Q3_2023_Earnings_Call_Transcript
The Kraft Heinz Company (NASDAQ:KHC) Q3 2023 Earnings Call Transcript November 4, 2023
Operator: Good day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Kraft Heinz Company Third Quarter Results Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today’s conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Anne-Marie Megela, Global Investor Relations.
Anne-Marie Megela: Thank you, and hello, everyone. Welcome to our Q&A session for our third quarter 2023 business update. During today’s call, we may have forward-looking statements regarding our expectations for the future, including items related to our business plans and expectations, strategy, efforts and investments and related timing and expected impacts. These statements are based on how we see things today, and actual results may differ materially due to risks and uncertainties. Please see the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in today’s earnings release, which accompanies this call as well as our most recent 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filings for more information regarding these risks and uncertainties. Additionally, we may refer to non-GAAP financial measures, which excludes certain items from our financial results reported in accordance with GAAP.
Please refer to today’s earnings release and the non-GAAP information available on our website at ir.kraftheinzcompany.com, under News and Events, for a discussion of our non-financial measures and reconciliations to the comparable GAAP financial measures. Before we begin, I’m going to hand it over to our CEO, Miguel Patricio, for some brief opening remarks.
Miguel Patricio: Well thank you, Anne-Marie, and thank you all for being with us today. And before opening the call for questions, I just would like to thank Kraft Heinz, my entire team for another great quarter. And again, I would like just to highlight some positive aspects about this quarter. We are generating accelerated profitable growth fueled by our three pillars. Our share and volume trends are improving as a result of the action plans that we are implementing. And we continue to strengthen our balance sheet, hitting our target net leverage of approximately 3x. And then we continue to invest in the future with another quarter of significant investments in marketing, technology and R&D. Well, with that, I have here with me today, Andre and Carlos. And so, let’s open the call for the Q&A.
See also 12 Best Mid-Cap Dividend Stocks To Buy Now and 12 Best Performing Dividend Stocks in 2023.
To continue reading the Q&A session, please click here.