url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/mercadolibre-nasdaq-meli-investing-capital-140022171.html
title:MercadoLibre_NASDAQMELI_Is_Investing_Its_Capital_With_Increasing_Efficiency
To find a multi-bagger stock, what are the underlying trends we should look for in a business? Amongst other things, we'll want to see two things; firstly, a growing return on capital employed (ROCE) and secondly, an expansion in the company's amount of capital employed. Basically this means that a company has profitable initiatives that it can continue to reinvest in, which is a trait of a compounding machine. And in light of that, the trends we're seeing at MercadoLibre's (NASDAQ:MELI) look very promising so lets take a look.
If you haven't worked with ROCE before, it measures the 'return' (pre-tax profit) a company generates from capital employed in its business. Analysts use this formula to calculate it for MercadoLibre:
Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) รท (Total Assets - Current Liabilities)
0.33 = US$1.9b รท (US$16b - US$10b) (Based on the trailing twelve months to September 2023).
Thus, MercadoLibre has an ROCE of 33%.  That's a fantastic return and not only that, it outpaces the average of 10% earned by companies in a similar industry.
 View our latest analysis for MercadoLibre 
In the above chart we have measured MercadoLibre's prior ROCE against its prior performance, but the future is arguably more important. If you'd like to see what analysts are forecasting going forward, you should check out our free report for MercadoLibre.
The fact that MercadoLibre is now generating some pre-tax profits from its prior investments is very encouraging. About five years ago the company was generating losses but things have turned around because it's now earning 33% on its capital. In addition to that, MercadoLibre is employing 466% more capital than previously which is expected of a company that's trying to break into profitability. This can indicate that there's plenty of opportunities to invest capital internally and at ever higher rates, both common traits of a multi-bagger.
For the record though, there was a noticeable increase in the company's current liabilities over the period, so we would attribute some of the ROCE growth to that. Effectively this means that suppliers or short-term creditors are now funding 64% of the business, which is more than it was five years ago. And with current liabilities at those levels, that's pretty high.
Long story short, we're delighted to see that MercadoLibre's reinvestment activities have paid off and the company is now profitable. And with the stock having performed exceptionally well over the last five years, these patterns are being accounted for by investors. In light of that, we think it's worth looking further into this stock because if MercadoLibre can keep these trends up, it could have a bright future ahead.
Before jumping to any conclusions though, we need to know what value we're getting for the current share price. That's where you can check out our  FREE intrinsic value estimation   that compares the share price and estimated value.
If you want to search for more stocks that have been earning high returns, check out this free list of stocks with solid balance sheets that are also earning high returns on equity.
Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? Get in touch with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. We provide commentary based on historical data and analyst forecasts only using an unbiased methodology and our articles are not intended to be financial advice. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.