url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-1-momentum-stock-could-145006223.html
title:Why_This_1_Momentum_Stock_Could_Be_a_Great_Addition_to_Your_Portfolio
Taking full advantage of the stock market and investing with confidence are common goals for new and old investors alike.
Many investors also have a go-to methodology that helps guide their buy and sell decisions. One way to find winning stocks based on your preferred way of investing is to use the Zacks Style Scores, which are indicators that rate stocks based on three widely-followed investing types: value, growth, and momentum.
Is This 1 Momentum Stock a Screaming Buy Right Now?
Momentum investors, who live by the saying "the trend is your friend," are most interested in taking advantage of upward or downward trends in a stock's price or earnings outlook. Utilizing one-week price change and the monthly percentage change in earnings estimates, among other factors, the Momentum Style Score can help determine favorable times to buy high-momentum stocks.
MercadoLibre (MELI)
Buenos Aires, Argentina based MercadoLibre, Inc. is one of the largest e-commerce platforms in South America. The company is a market leader in e-commerce in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Chile, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Peru, Mexico, and Uruguay based on unique visitors and page views.
MELI is a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) stock, with a Momentum Style Score of A and VGM Score of A. Shares are up 11.4% over the past one week and up 9.9% over the past four weeks. MELI has gained 47.6% in the last one-year period as well. Looking at trading volume, an average of 440,807.09 shares exchanged hands over the last 20 trading days.
Momentum investors also pay close attention to a company's earnings. For MELI, one analyst revised their earnings estimate upwards in the last 60 days, and the Zacks Consensus Estimate has increased $0.58 to $21.14 per share for 2023. MELI boasts an average earnings surprise of 33%.
Investors should take the time to consider MELI for their portfolios due to its solid Zacks Ranks, notable earnings metrics, and impressive Momentum and VGM Style Scores.
Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report
MercadoLibre, Inc. (MELI) : Free Stock Analysis Report
To read this article on Zacks.com click here.
Zacks Investment Research
Related Quotes