url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/figma-hired-500-employees-since-182246135.html
title:Figma_Hired_500_Employees_Since_Adobe_Acquisition_Announced
(Bloomberg) -- Design startup Figma Inc.’s headcount has grown roughly 60% since it announced merger plans with Adobe Inc. in September 2022, a sign the company hasn’t been standing still while it waits for the deal to close.
Most Read from Bloomberg
Rockstar Plans to Announce Much Anticipated ‘Grand Theft Auto VI’
US 30-Year Mortgage Rate Tumbles by Most in More Than a Year
VIX Notches Its Longest Slide Since October 2015: Markets Wrap
Virginia Democrats Fend Off Republican Sweep in Win for Abortion Rights
Adam Neumann Remains a Billionaire Even With WeWork Bankruptcy
“It’s been a very exciting year here at Figma,” Chief Executive Officer Dylan Field said Tuesday in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “We’ve added about 500 employees since the deal was announced.”
As regulatory pressure in the US and Europe has delayed the $20 billion takeover by creative software giant Adobe, Figma has worked to illustrate momentum as an independent company. On Tuesday, the digital-design startup announced new generative artificial intelligence features in its brainstorming tool, FigJam. Figma uses OpenAI’s GPT-4 model for the new feature, though it could reconsider that choice in the future, Field said.
Figma has also opened new offices in London and Singapore, hosted a June user conference in San Francisco, and now has more than 1,300 employees, according to a spokesperson.
The Adobe acquisition is scheduled to be completed by the end of March, though it may be hard to conclude the purchase in that time frame with at least one of the regulatory agencies likely to challenge the deal, Bloomberg Intelligence antitrust analyst Jennifer Rie wrote in September. Adobe may owe the design startup a $1 billion breakup fee if the transaction takes longer than that and the deal collapses, according to the merger documents.
Read More: Adobe’s Focus Isn’t Figma Any More as Regulator Lawsuit Looms
When asked whether there was a chance the deal could fall apart, Field said, “We’re very optimistic, and very excited about what we can do with Adobe.” He added that his company can learn a lot from Adobe’s recent advancements in artificial intelligence.
--With assistance from Caroline Hyde, Ed Ludlow and Paayal Zaveri.
Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek
Elon Musk’s Brain Implant Startup Is Ready to Start Surgery
In Uruguay, a Tax Haven With Lots of Beaches and Little Crime
Can a Triangle-Shaped Jet Cut Fuel Consumption in Half?
Private Equity Courts a Growing Class of Mini-Millionaires
Top-Ranked MBA Programs Struggle to Reverse Declining Applications
©2023 Bloomberg L.P.
Related Quotes