url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/baker-hughes-company-bkr-well-075904770.html
title:Is_Baker_Hughes_Company_BKR_Well_Positioned_to_Benefit_from_the_Tailwinds
Carillon Tower Advisers, an investment management company, released its “Carillon Eagle Mid Cap Growth Fund” third quarter 2023 investor letter. A copy of the same can be downloaded here. In the third quarter, mid-cap stocks had negative returns, reversing their positive returns in the first half of the year. The Russell Midcap Growth Index was down 5.22% slightly trailing the Russell Midcap Value Index which was down 4.46%. In addition, you can check the top 5 holdings of the fund to know its best picks in 2023.
Carillon Eagle Mid Cap Growth Fund highlighted stocks like Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR) in its Q3 2023 investor letter. Headquartered in Houston, Texas, Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR) provides technologies and services to energy and industrial value chains. On October 26, 2023, Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR) stock closed at $35.02 per share. One-month return of Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR) was -0.85%, and its shares gained 28.56% of their value over the last 52 weeks. Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR) has a market capitalization of $35.475 billion.
Carillon Eagle Mid Cap Growth Fund made the following comment about Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR) in its Q3 2023 investor letter:
"Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR), a diversified energy technology and equipment company, posted another quarterly update highlighted by solid execution and healthy order trends in both its traditional oilfield services and emerging energy technology businesses. The company is well-positioned to benefit from tailwinds that include the multi-year upturn in international and offshore upstream spending, the ongoing build-out of liquefied natural gas infrastructure, and the increased development of emerging areas such as green hydrogen and carbon capture."
A drilling rig in action in the Western Canadian wilderness, showing the companies focus on exploration and production. Editorial photo for a financial news article. 8k. --ar 16:9
Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR) is not on our list of 30 Most Popular Stocks Among Hedge Funds. As per our database, 34 hedge fund portfolios held Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR) at the end of second quarter which was 39 in the previous quarter.
We discussed Baker Hughes Company (NASDAQ:BKR) in another article and shared the list of stocks whose price targets were recently raised by analysts. In addition, please check out our hedge fund investor letters Q3 2023 page for more investor letters from hedge funds and other leading investors.
 
Suggested Articles:
Renaissance Technologies Returns, AUM, CEO and Top Energy Stock Picks
30 Dying Professions to Avoid Like a Plague
Duquesne Family Office’s 15 New Stock Picks
Disclosure: None. This article is originally published at Insider Monkey.