url:https://finance.yahoo.com/news/top-20-genomics-companies-world-194600414.html
title:Top_20_Genomics_Companies_in_the_World
In this piece, we will take a look at the top 20 genomics companies in the world. If you want to skip our analysis of the genomics industry, then take a look at the Top 5 Genomics Companies in the World. 
Modern day science has delivered a plethora of advancements that have enabled humans to manipulate matter in ways that would simply be thought of as magic by folks living just a century ago. For instance, a jet engine, an industrial machine that must perform at unbelievable pressures and heat, is made up of tens of thousands of components and sees its engine blades cast as a single piece to avoid microscopic hairline fractures. Another example is semiconductor fabrication, which requires printing circuits that measure nanometers in width to improve computing power and performance. A single nanometer is roughly 1/80,000 times the width of a human hair, so safe to say, that printing such circuits is nothing short of magic indeed.
However, while jet engines and semiconductors are made from non biological materials, humans have also found ways to manipulate the building blocks of their bodies. A body's physical and other characteristics are inherited through genes that are coded in DNA, and understanding genetic structure is crucial for solving serious diseases such as Alzheimer's. A complete set of DNA is called a genome, and the study and work involving its manipulation is called genomics.
Like biotechnology, genomics is a budding industry that has only recently started to grow thanks to advances in computing power. This nascent stage of the genomics industry lends it a high growth rate as evidenced by market research which shows that the global genomics industry was worth $27.58 billion in 2021 and was expected to grow to $32.56 billion by 2022. From then until 2026, this sector is expected to grow by a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 18.2% to be worth $63.5 billion by the end of the forecast period. Growth in the industry is fueled by rising government funding with the aim of understanding the human genetic sequence.
Focusing on the components of the industry, there are three primary methods in which researchers can engage in genomic editing. These are zinc-finger nucleases (ZFN), transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALEN), and the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats-associated protein 9 (CRISPR-Cas9) technologies. Reading this, you might be wondering what a 'nuclease' is. Well, a nuclease is an enzyme that is crucial for repairing DNA damage, as well as DNA replication, and DNA destruction, and the different kinds of genomic technologies that we have mentioned use nucleases such as TALE, zinc-finger, and cas9 nucleases to manipulate DNA.
The potential offered by the ability to edit the human body's basic structural elements also provides researchers and companies with the ability to target genetic diseases. As opposed to ailments such as hepatitis, these diseases are often incurable since their cause is not an external element such as a virus or bacteria. Instead, the problem lies with the genetic code of the body which means that disease is simply the natural state of a body that has the mutated gene. One deadly disease that is on genomics' radar is sickle cell disease in children. In sickle cell disease, the red blood cells of the body take up abnormal shapes leading to their early demise. This leaves the body starved of oxygen and can lead to death. Researchers are quite optimistic about the ability of genomics to treat sickle cell disease, with fresh research published in the New England Journal of Medicine showing that by using CRISPR-Cas9 to edit stem cells from sickle cell patients increased the cells' ability to produce fetal hemoglobin which can replace the mutated cells and potentially provide a cure.
With genomics making important advances to improve global well being, we decided to take a look at the top genomics companies in the world. Out of these, the three biggest genomic companies are Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ:IONS), Genscript Biotech Corporation (OTCMKTS:GNNSF), and Illumina, Inc. (NASDAQ:ILMN).
A lab scientist peering into a microscope focused on gene editing technology. Editorial photo for a financial news article. 8k. --ar 16:9
Our Methodology 
To compile our list of the top genomics companies, we ranked all companies that are engaged in genomics or provide services to genomic companies by their market capitalization. Out of these, the top 20 were chosen as the top genomics companies.
Latest Market Capitalization: $505 million 
Anavex Life Sciences Corp. (NASDAQ:AVXL) is a biotechnology firm that uses genomic data from research to select biomarkers that can be used to treat diseases such as Alzheimer's. The firm's shares are rated Buy on average, and analysts are quite optimistic about the stock as they have priced in a $41 upside over the current share price.
As of Q2 2023 end, nine out of the 910 hedge funds part of Insider Monkey's database had bought Anavex Life Sciences Corp. (NASDAQ:AVXL)'s shares. Out of these, the firm's biggest shareholder is Israel Englander's Millennium Management since it owns 248,297 shares that are worth $2 million.
Along with Genscript Biotech Corporation (OTCMKTS:GNNSF), Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ:IONS), and Illumina, Inc. (NASDAQ:ILMN), Anavex Life Sciences Corp. (NASDAQ:AVXL) is a top genomics company.
Latest Market Capitalization: $586 million
Editas Medicine, Inc. (NASDAQ:EDIT) uses CRISPR to develop treatments for cancer and other diseases. Its shares soared in late September after Stifel increased its share price target to $17 from $9 and upgraded the rating to Buy from Hold.
By the end of this year's second quarter, 26 out of the 910 hedge funds polled by Insider Monkey had held a stake in the company. Editas Medicine, Inc. (NASDAQ:EDIT)'s largest investor is David Kroin's Deep Track Capital due to its $28 million stake.
Latest Market Capitalization: $743 million
Prime Medicine, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRME) uses Cas proteins and other technologies to develop treatments for diseases such as leukemia. The firm scored a win in the second quarter when Cathie Wood, known for her aggressive targeting of high growth companies, increased her stake in the firm. Along with her, 12 hedge funds out of the 910 part of Insider Monkey's database had also held a stake in Prime Medicine, Inc. (NASDAQ:PRME) during the same time period.
Latest Market Capitalization: $756 million
Fulgent Genetics, Inc. (NASDAQ:FLGT) is a backend genomics services provider that enables customers to study their DNA for markers and anomalies. The firm's shares tanked in August after its earnings report revealed a 33 cent loss.
During 2023's June quarter, 17 out of the 910 hedge funds researched by Insider Monkey were Fulgent Genetics, Inc. (NASDAQ:FLGT)'s investors. William Zolezzi's Divisadero Street Capital owns the biggest stake among these, which is worth $25.6 million.
Latest Market Capitalization: $756 million
Verve Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ:VERV) is currently developing a product to tinker with genes that govern the liver. It is one of the few stocks on our list that has been rated Strong Buy on average, and analysts have priced in a $32 share price upside over the current price of $12.
After digging through 910 hedge fund portfolios for this year's second quarter, Insider Monkey discovered that 18 had held a stake in the company. Verve Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ:VERV)'s largest investor in our database is Catherine D. Wood's ARK Investment Management since it owns 5.1 million shares that are worth $96.5 million.
Latest Market Capitalization: $1.24 billion
Myriad Genetics, Inc. (NASDAQ:MYGN) is another backend genomics company that provides gene testing products for serious diseases such as cancer. The firm expanded its cancer portfolio in August by partnering up with a mammography provider for a risk assessment program.
During Q2 2023, 14 out of the 910 hedge funds part of Insider Monkey's database had invested in Myriad Genetics, Inc. (NASDAQ:MYGN). Stephen Dubois' Camber Capital Management is the company's biggest shareholder through its $153 million investment.
Latest Market Capitalization: $1.58 billion
NeoGenomics, Inc. (NASDAQ:NEO) is another genomic testing company that provides cancer testing services. It's another stock that is rated Strong Buy on average, with an average share price target of $21.18.
Insider Monkey took a look at 910 hedge fund holdings for their June quarter of 2023 investments to discover that 20 were the firm's investors. NeoGenomics, Inc. (NASDAQ:NEO)'s largest hedge fund stakeholder is Joe Milano's Greenhouse Funds since it owns $52.9 million worth of shares.
Latest Market Capitalization: $1.73 billion
Beam Therapeutics Inc. (NASDAQ:BEAM) is a biotechnology company with several research collaborations including those that use Cas12b nucleases for cell therapy. 88% of its shares are owned by institutional investors, making it vulnerable to large and sudden swings.
As of June 2023, 20 out of the 910 hedge funds part of Insider Monkey's research had held a stake in Beam Therapeutics Inc. (NASDAQ:BEAM). Catherine D. Wood's ARK Investment Management is the biggest investor out of these due to a $267 million investment.
Latest Market Capitalization: $1.80 billion (1GBP = 1.23USD) 
Genus plc (LON:GNS.L) is the first international firm on our list. It is headquartered in Basingstoke, the United Kingdom. Additionally, as opposed to other companies so far that focus on humans, Genus plc (LON:GNS.L) uses genomics to improve pig breeds.
Latest Market Capitalization: $2.25 billion 
Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc. (NASDAQ:PACB) is an American company headquartered in Menlo Park, California. A backend genomics company, it provides genetic sequencing systems to researchers and other users. The firm expanded its pediatric genomics portfolio in August by teaming up with the University of Washington for research.
By the end of this year's second quarter, 28 out of the 910 hedge funds polled by Insider Monkey had invested in the company. Out of these, Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc. (NASDAQ:PACB)'s largest shareholder is Catherine D. Wood's ARK Investment Management since it owns $354 million worth of shares.
Latest Market Capitalization: $2.68 billion 
Intellia Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ:NTLA) develops genomic tools based on the CRISPR-Cas9 system. It expanded its partnership with the pharma giant Regeneron in October 2023 to develop treatments for nervous system disorders.
By Q2 2023 end, 29 hedge funds out of the 910 surveyed by Insider Monkey had bought Intellia Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ:NTLA)'s shares. Catherine D. Wood's ARK Investment Management is the biggest investor among these due to its $388 million stake.
Latest Market Capitalization: $3 billion 
Blueprint Medicines Corporation (NASDAQ:BPMC) is a pureplay genomics company that focuses its treatments on genome derived cancers. It faced a setback in June 2023 when a partner firm withdrew a treatment for thyroid cancer.
Insider Monkey dug through 910 hedge fund portfolios for their June quarter of 2023 shareholdings to discover that 22 were the firm's investors. Blueprint Medicines Corporation (NASDAQ:BPMC)'s largest shareholder is Kris Jenner, Gordon Bussard, and Graham Mcphail's Rock Springs Capital Management courtesy of a $138 million investment.
Latest Market Capitalization: $3.18 billion 
Krystal Biotech, Inc. (NASDAQ:KRYS) is a high end biotechnology company that injects therapeutic genes directly into the patient's cells. Its shares are rated Strong Buy on average and analysts have penned in a $149 average share price target.
During this year's second quarter, 21 hedge funds among the 910 polled by Insider Monkey had bought and invested in Krystal Biotech, Inc. (NASDAQ:KRYS)'s shares. Jeremy Green's Redmile Group is the biggest investor among these since it owns 2.5 million shares that are worth $301 million.
Latest Market Capitalization: $3.52 billion 
CRISPR Therapeutics AG (NASDAQ:CRSP) sits at the heart of the genomics industry because of its CRISPR platform that works with different nucleases such as Cas9 and Cas12b. Its treatment for sickle cell disease carries the potential to be the first of its kind to secure FDA approval in December, providing significant juice to the stock.
As of June 2023, 30 out of the 910 hedge funds part of Insider Monkey's research had held a stake in the firm. CRISPR Therapeutics AG (NASDAQ:CRSP)'s largest hedge fund investor is Catherine D. Wood's ARK Investment Management due to its $411 million stake.
Latest Market Capitalization: $3.65 billion 
Ginkgo Bioworks Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:DNA) is a high end and diversified genomics company that has developed thousands of genome edits to learn more about the E. Coli bacteria. The stock is rated Buy on average and the average share price is $4.
23 out of the 910 hedge funds surveyed by Insider Monkey for their Q2 2023 shareholdings were Ginkgo Bioworks Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:DNA)'s investors. It joins Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ:IONS), Genscript Biotech Corporation (OTCMKTS:GNNSF), and Illumina, Inc. (NASDAQ:ILMN) in our list of the top genomics companies in the world.
Click here to continue reading and check out Top 5 Genomics Companies in the World. 
Suggested articles:
10 Biotech Stocks with Biggest Upside
16 Best Growth Stocks To Buy According To Hedge Funds
11 Most Undervalued Biotech Stocks to Buy According to Analysts
Disclosure: None. Top 20 Genomics Companies in the World is originally published on Insider Monkey.